TEXTYou can tell when a technology is really taking hold. In addition to picking up customers, it generates other businesses that require their own care and feeding. And some of those businesses can illustrate how much more business is out there. On Tuesday, Amazon Web Services is having a meeting for developers and customers in San Francisco. It is the fourth of 12 such meetings Amazon is holding worldwide; the first was in New York on April 18 and the last will be in São Paulo, Brazil, on July 30. In between, Amazon will be in Delhi and Berlin, among other cities. These gatherings will include lots of cheerleading and information from Amazon Web Services directed toward prospective customers and will also have meetings for companies that work closely with Web services on things like databases, security, and application development. About 650 companies are partners with Amazon Web Services, and there are another 723 consulting partners that attract customers looking to tie the unit into their business. Amazon Web Services is growing fast. It has over 1,600 job openings on its Web site and accounted for the vast majority of the $798 million in ''other'' revenue Amazon reported in the quarter that ended March 31. Still, it wants those other companies to be really active on its behalf so it can remain the leader in so-called ''public clouds,'' or cloud computing services for rent. A look at one of the partners, Eucalyptus Systems, illustrates the kind of scale the Amazon service operates on. Eucalyptus provides cloud software that is used primarily for testing big Amazon service projects. That is, even before some companies go on Amazon Web Services, they build mini-Web services clouds. One customer of Eucalyptus, AppDynamics, tests new software for Netflix, the largest customer of the Amazon service. ''Even before their software is on A.W.S., we are categorizing and analyzing over a billion transactions,'' said Thomas Morse, director of information technology and operations at App Dynamics. ''Netflix inflicts a unique kind of pain on a system, with tens of thousands of computing nodes supporting millions of actions a minute.'' Eucalyptus, which began life as an open-source project for people to build their own clouds, moved into supporting Amazon Web Services once Amazon captured such a large share of the market. ''They've got hundreds of thousands of customers now,'' said Marten Mickos, chief executive of Eucalyptus. Because almost all of these customers are companies, he said, ''it is used by millions of people. It gives them meaning for a number of years.'' Last week the data storage giant EMC and its affiliate VMware, which are worried about the Amazon service, announced creation of Pivotal, a company that includes its own Amazon-type cloud. This summer, Google is likely to announce an expansion of its own Amazon Web Services-type unit, called Google Compute Engine. Both Pivotal and Google are working hard on partner networks of their own. Elsewhere, a wealth of consortia with the word ''open'' in their names are looking for their own openings. Many of these companies are heavily backed by older incumbent companies. Mr. Mickos, who sold MySQL, a relational database management system, to Sun Microsystems for $1 billion in 2008, sees the completion as a three-way competition. ''There are the old guys, like IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Cisco, who are trying to get into new stuff,'' he says. ''There are the server virtualization companies, like VMware and Citrix, who say the cloud is just more virtualization of your existing equipment. Then there are the pure plays, like A.W.S. and Google.'' On Monday, Eucalyptus introduced a new version of its product that allows customers to test even bigger projects before they move to the Amazon service. In the future, Mr. Mickos said, the company would look to make its product compatible with Google's service as well. ''It is the most interesting strategic thing we can do,'' he said. ''Amazon is the standard now, Google will compete. There is an old world that won't cross over.'' This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.Monsanto and DuPont, which have bitterly battled for dominance in the seed business, have settled their major disputes with a broad patent-licensing deal. Under the terms of the agreement, announced Tuesday, DuPont will pay Monsanto at least $1.75 billion over 10 years for the rights to technology for genetically engineered soybeans that are resistant to herbicides. ''This signals a new approach to our companies doing business together, allowing two of the leaders in the industry to focus on bringing farmers the best products possible,'' Brett D. Begemann, Monsanto's president and chief commercial officer, said in a joint news release. Monsanto shares rose $4.39, or more than 4 percent, on Tuesday, closing at $103.79. DuPont shares fell 14 cents, to $48.97. DuPont, which owns the Pioneer Hi-Bred seed company, has fought for years with Monsanto, which controls the technology for making soybeans resistant to the weed-killer Roundup, known generically as glyphosate. More than 90 percent of the soybeans planted in the United States incorporate that technology. A federal jury in August ordered DuPont to pay $1 billion to Monsanto for infringing on patents on that technology. The agreement on Tuesday will wipe away that verdict. In return, DuPont will drop an antitrust lawsuit against Monsanto that had not yet gone to trial. DuPont will gain access to the technology for Monsanto's second generation of glyphosate-resistant soybeans, known as Roundup Ready 2 Yield. It also gains access to technology for soybeans immune to another herbicide called dicamba. DuPont will also obtain the rights to combine Monsanto's patented genes with other genes to develop crops with multiple traits. The lawsuit was spurred by a disagreement over whether Pioneer was allowed to combine the Roundup Ready gene with its own herbicide-resistance technology. ''It gives us the choices we need to have to make the right combinations for our farmers,'' Paul E. Schickler, president of DuPont Pioneer, said in an interview.ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released this week include durable goods orders for July (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for June (Tuesday); pending home sales for June, and weekly mortgage applications (Wednesday); revised second-quarter gross domestic product, and new weekly unemployment claims (Thursday); and personal income and spending for July, the Institute for Supply Management survey of Chicago purchasing managers for August, and the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey for August (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include TiVo and Tiffany (Tuesday); Accor (Wednesday); Campbell Soup, Krispy Kreme, Salesforce.com, Carrefour, L'Oréal, Pernod Ricard and Vivendi (Thursday); and Hermès International (Friday). OVERSEAS On Tuesday, the Ifo Institute will report on its index of Germany's business climate in July, and Mercedes-Benz will open its first production plant in China. On Wednesday, Brazil's central bank will issue its decision on the nation's benchmark interest rate, and the new governor of the Bank of England, Mark J. Carney, is set to deliver his first policy address. On Thursday, Japan will report on retail sales in July, Germany will report on unemployment in August, and Spain will report on revisions in its estimate for its gross domestic product in the second quarter.A call from a relative early on Thursday delivered the crushing news to Louleo Darga: The small hair salon she had owned in the Bronx since she came to the United States from Burkina Faso a quarter of a century ago had been consumed by fire. ''You take care of your kids with it; I take care of all of them with that shop,'' Ms. Darga, who has seven children, said as she stood watching a plume of smoke rising from what remained of her salon, Darga Hair Braiding. The blaze, which quickly escalated to five alarms, destroyed a row of small storefront businesses along White Plains Road in a working-class neighborhood populated by immigrants from different parts of the world. They were the kind of relatively modest businesses that allow owners to pay their bills and provide for their families, and that attract a loyal customer base. ''I been coming here for a long time,'' Bunny Lee, 35, a chef, said of the commercial block that was now ashes and cinders. ''This is a big hurt to these parts.'' Besides Ms. Darga's hair salon, the businesses destroyed included two delis, a laundromat, a cellphone store and a check-cashing business. The first 911 call about the fire came in at 6:16 a.m., fire officials said, with reports that it had started in a garage at 3985 White Plains Road underneath the elevated subway tracks. The fire then spread to other businesses through a common cockloft, a part of the roof shared by adjoining buildings. The fire could be seen for miles and disrupted subway service, with trains bypassing the 225th Street station, which was enveloped in smoke. Eleven firefighters and one passer-by were taken to hospitals in the Bronx with minor injuries, mostly for smoke inhalation, a fire official said. What started the fire is still under investigation, officials said. By the time the fire was declared under control at 9:45 a.m., it had destroyed or damaged 11 businesses on White Plains Road, between 225th and 226th Streets. Firefighters blasted a hose straight into the rubble from the street while a team using a ladder truck rained a spray of water onto the fire. At times, the wind and water whipped the white smoke from the fire into a noxious fog that made the entire block disappear and sent onlookers scurrying away, their shirts pulled up over their noses. Gordon Livingston, 51, a neighbor, shook his head as he watched jets of water hissing into the wreckage. ''It's total devastation for this community,'' he said. ''This is like mom-and-pop shops trying to get by. This is a big loss.'' Surrounded by several of her daughters, Ms. Darga, 55, seemed to be at a loss. ''We don't know what we do now,'' she said. Boost Mobile, a cellphone store on the edge of the block, appeared to have been spared the worst, but that was of little consolation to its owner, Youngae Hwang. ''I can't say I was lucky. How about those other people?'' said Ms. Hwang, 67, gesturing at Ms. Darga and her daughters. A neighboring mosque, Masjid Al-Huda, sustained water and fire damage, and will be closed indefinitely for repairs, said Bilal Ahmed, 34, a member who leads the call to prayers. ''We just got to be patient,'' he said. ''The main goal is we have to come together to help each other.'' Sam Saleh, 18, who works at a deli on the block, got a call from a worker on the block at about 7 a.m., telling him that a garage was on fire and that the fire was spreading. He raced to the shop, Bronx Mini Market, and found the whole block smeared in smoke. ''They said, 'The store is burning,' '' Mr. Saleh recalled. ''I just came rushing.'' Mohamed Alsaidi, 53, the owner of the Bronx Mini Mart and a native of Yemen, said his passport and all of his documents burned inside the market, which he ran for seven years. ''Everything is gone,'' Mr. Alsaidi said. ''All my papers -- my life is inside there.'' Malik Dieye, 24, who also worked at the Mini Mart, said it offered services like money wiring and cellphone sales, making it integral to the community. ''It's not one of those stores where people come and go,'' Mr. Dieye said. ''We have a social relationship with our customers like a family.''SHANGHAI -- Christie's auction house said Tuesday it had been granted a license and was set to become the first international auction house to operate independently in China, which has already overtaken the United States as the world's largest art and auction market. The move allows Christie's to sell directly to a growing class of wealthy collectors in China, many of whom have been spending huge sums of money in recent years to buy fine art, wine, watches, jewelry and other items at auctions around the world. Sotheby's and Christie's have been operating in Hong Kong for a long time, and have seen their business explode in the city, which is governed independently. But the world's two biggest auction houses have long sought greater access to mainland China to cultivate collectors, hold auctions and compete with China's own formidable auction houses, Poly International and Guardian, two entities that have recently moved into the ranks of the world's biggest auction houses. Last year, Sotheby's formed a joint venture in Beijing with a state-owned Chinese company called Gehua Cultural Development Group to hold auctions in China. Now, Christie's has signed its own agreement with the city of Shanghai, and plans to hold its first auction this fall, though the company said the agreement restricted Christie's from dealing in ''cultural relics.'' The company can operate throughout China, but will be based in Shanghai and pay taxes there. In a statement released Tuesday, Steven P. Murphy, the chief executive officer of Christie's made clear how important China is to the auction house's future. ''In recent years we have seen phenomenal developments take place in the global art market, particularly in China, where the market has grown at an unprecedented rate,'' he said. ''Today's announcement further solidifies Christie's position and commitment in a market which possesses a strong heritage and deep appreciation of art.'' Last year, revenue in China's art and auction market was about $4.5 billion, down sharply from $9.3 billion in 2011, when the market was blistering hot. But China's home-grown auction houses have also been plagued by fakes, smuggling and long-standing suspicions of price manipulation. Analysts say Sotheby's and Christie's hope to capture a share of the market and compete by promising higher standards for authenticating and evaluating art and other collectibles.The big news in newspapers -- that Jeffrey P. Bezos is buying The Washington Post -- was not even 24 hours old when shock and wisecracks about the unexpected $250 million deal began to give way to acceptance and even envy. What, many are asking, does Mr. Bezos, the billionaire founder and chief executive of Amazon.com, see in a 135-year-old newspaper that others do not? If Mr. Bezos's business history is any indication, don't expect a quick answer and don't expect any short-term fixes for The Post, which has suffered from years of sliding revenue and circulation. While terms like disrupter and innovator are often used to describe Mr. Bezos in his years at Amazon, he has also proved to be a long-term thinker, someone willing to buck Wall Street demands for big profits in order to invest in his company's growth. Now that he is the private owner of The Post, it would not be surprising to see him worry little about turning a quick profit and instead push to upend the often ossified world of newspaper publishing, just as he did with books more than a decade ago. Indeed, Mr. Bezos, who declined a request for an interview, hinted in a letter to employees that he felt a ''need to invent, which means we will need to experiment,'' and that ''there will, of course, be change at The Post over the coming years.'' But just what those experiments will be is anyone's guess. ''Jeff Bezos doesn't need The Washington Post to make money tomorrow or even in five years,'' said Glenn Kelman, the founder and chief executive of Redfin, a real estate site that, like Amazon, is based in Seattle. ''He's proven that he's able to think over a geological time scale.'' In recent years, newspapers large and small have experimented with concepts aimed at capturing elusive online revenue to make up for losses in print circulation and advertising. The Post, for example, has dabbled in some experimental news products, including the creation of a social reader for Facebook and a recommendation engine called Trove. Other news organizations have toyed with various strategies, most with limited success. The Daily, an iPad-only news app developed by News Corporation, shuttered after less than two years. The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, The New York Times and The Post have adopted various pay models for digital readers. The Guardian started a United States-based operation in 2011 to experiment with a digitally focused newsroom. All of these companies have created mobile apps and made significant investments in online video, where advertising revenue is expected to grow, but no paper has cracked the code on how to replace steep declines in print advertising. Other traditional print magazines, like The New Yorker and Vogue, have digitized and sold portions of their archives. They have also dabbled with new ways to make money through Amazon, particularly through the Kindle Singles, which are shorter e-books. Amazon's biggest influence has been disrupting the economics of newspapers through millions of its Kindle mobile devices. Mr. Bezos said The Post would be run separately from Amazon, but there is little doubt that he will bring what he has learned over the years to the newspaper world. ''He's done an amazing job of bringing e-books to reality,'' said Matt Galligan, the co-founder of the mobile news start-up Circa. ''There's a strong likelihood that a similar transition could happen at The Post.'' Though Mr. Bezos demurely noted in his letter that he had no history in newspapers, that he is an outsider not steeped in the old ways of newspaper management has excited some. ''Washington Post to be sold to Jeff Bezos?! I'd actually return to the journalism world if I could work for him,'' wrote Adrian Holovaty on Twitter after the news broke. Six years ago, Mr. Holovaty held the title ''editor for editorial innovation'' at The Post, but left in 2007. The co-creator of the popular Web framework Django, he thinks Mr. Bezos will bring ''fresh, baggage-less thinking.'' No baggage -- and deep pockets -- means room to try new things. Might Mr. Bezos apply tech industry concepts like frictionless payments, e-commerce integration, recommendation engines, data analytics or improved concepts for mobile reading? One of the biggest challenges for any company trying to sell goods on the Web, whether it is a crop-top shirt or a news subscription, is ''creating relevance,'' said Deena Varshavskaya, the founder and chief executive of Wanelo, a stylish e-commerce site popular among young women. That is an area where Mr. Bezos might be primed to flex his expertise in analyzing data to find ways to engage a younger audience. In addition, Mr. Bezos's money could come in handy when it comes to adding to the newspaper developers, engineers, designers and others who could radically change the way the organization looks and runs. The tech industry from which Bezos has emerged certainly has offered new ways to consume news. Start-ups like Flipboard, Digg, Pocket and Feedly have long been testing and building out alternative ways to read and consume information on the Web and via mobile devices. That includes experimenting with news aggregation, recommendations and clever ways to bookmark interesting articles to read later. James M. Brady, who was the executive editor of The Post's Web site from 2004 to 2008, said that traditional news outlets had struggled to build and experiment with the digital arms of their organizations while retaining the values that built the company. ''We all tried to do it on the news side, but when you're dealing with declining revenues and still trying to put out a daily news product, there's not much money left for the developer side,'' he said. ''We should have done it anyway, but at the time we were trying to preserve the core product, the daily newspaper.'' In other words, the new ownership is an opportunity for a tech-oriented reboot. Mr. Kelman said that the steady flow of new ideas and the consumer reach of sites like Yahoo, Google, Facebook and Twitter meant that tech had a lot to say about the future of The Post and other newspapers. That a tech mogul is now also a newspaper mogul shouldn't be a shock. ''It used to be that in Silicon Valley we just built the platforms and someone else wrote the content,'' Mr. Kelman said. ''But that is changing. The lines have been blurred for a long time and this is just another step in that process.''REMEMBER Bud Fox, the callow, young go-getter portrayed by Charlie Sheen in the 1987 movie ''Wall Street''? Ever wonder how Bud's career would have gone had he lasted another 10 years or so? Frankly, me neither. But I suspect that things might have turned out almost as badly as they did for Turney Duff, a callow, young hedge fund trader who writes of his own noteworthy flameout in a bracing new Wall Street memoir called ''The Buy Side'' (Crown Business, 320 pages). Mr. Duff's tale calls to mind books like ''Bright Lights, Big City,'' by Jay McInerney, and especially ''Liar's Poker,'' by Michael Lewis -- stories of wide-eyed newcomers confronted by the temptations of moneyed New York. As literature, it doesn't rise to the same class. As spectacle, it easily trumps both. Mr. Duff makes millions, pays brand-name rappers to perform at his birthday party and dates a glamorous singer. But instead of riding into the sunset, he ends up retreating to sumptuous hotel suites where he inhales piles of cocaine, swills Scotch and watches pornographic movies. By himself. Along the way, by his own admission, Mr. Duff becomes a caricature of the arrogant young Wall Streeter that so much of America loves to hate. If ''The Buy Side'' is remembered for any single line, it will be the remark that Mr. Duff says he uttered one evening upon confronting a lengthy queue outside a downtown Manhattan nightclub. Barging past the bouncers, he announces: ''I don't stand in lines. I snort them.'' He and his trading pals think the joke so hilarious that they later emblazon it on souvenir T-shirts. A middle-class kid from Maine, Mr. Duff began his career in 1994, in the early years of the hedge fund era, when he arrived in New York as a fresh-faced journalism graduate from Ohio University. Unable to land a job in writing or anything else, he reaches out to an uncle on Wall Street, who arranges interviews with several of the big firms. Mr. Duff aces the one at Morgan Stanley by recapping the previous evening's episode of ''Melrose Place,'' the interviewer's favorite television show. Hey, so much for that diploma. One of the book's strengths is Mr. Duff's self-awareness. He realizes what he became. At Morgan, where he spent five years as a desk assistant, he knew little about Wall Street and learned even less about investing, acknowledging that he was too lazy to read research. Where he thrived was after the closing bell, when he proved adept at staging office parties and leading his peers -- and a few higher-ups -- through the assorted watering holes he frequented. His light-bulb moment comes one evening when he successfully introduces a group of pretty girls to a senior trader. ''I realize I'm in my element,'' he writes. ''I feel in total control and at ease. Only in looking back can I see how seminal this moment is. I would never be able to stand out at my job. There I'm out-experienced, out-connected and out-degreed. But here, with a glass in hand, I have as good a chance as any to move and shake.'' Mr. Duff puts his social skills to good use when, unable to secure an actual trading job at Morgan, he moves to an up-and-coming hedge fund, the Galleon Group -- the same Galleon Group that was eviscerated in Wall Street's continuing insider-trading scandals. As a ''buy side'' trader executing transactions for senior portfolio managers, he is a conduit to the ''sell side'' traders at the big Wall Street firms who actually carry out his trades. Mr. Duff's decisions on how and where to allocate his trades make him of crucial importance to the sell-side traders, who earn commissions on them. It is Mr. Duff's portrait of how sell-side traders ardently romance their buy-side counterparts that is probably the book's most memorable contribution to Wall Street literature. He takes everything they offer: booze, dinners, Super Bowl tickets, private jets to Las Vegas weekends, parties in South Beach, lots of cocaine and, while at Galleon, scads of tips that move stocks. One of his mentors, a trader named David Slaine, ended up cooperating with the government's Galleon investigation, but the scandal proves peripheral to the book. WHAT stays with you is the portrait of a young man who seemingly never met a temptation he could deny. For a time, Mr. Duff rides high, earning million-dollar bonus checks, renting a TriBeCa triplex with drop-dead Hudson River views and eventually adding a girlfriend, a Long Island manse and a beloved daughter. But the drugs soon take hold, and his long downward spiral grows uglier at every turn. After two stays in rehabilitation facilities, he loses the trading job he took after leaving Galleon, then his relationship and the real estate. The financial crisis does the rest, and today, Mr. Duff says, he tries to make a living writing from a tiny apartment in Long Island City, Queens. Mr. Duff proves a fine wordsmith; his prose is smooth, lean and rhythmic. Where the book misfires -- badly -- is when he tries to plumb the existential side of things, or to employ literary artifice. There is one cringe-worthy chapter about his girlfriend, where he begins every few paragraphs with a letter, ''I,'' then ''I L,'' and so on, which of course ends up spelling out ''I LOVE YOU.'' It made me want to throw the book across the room. Almost as bad is his ''Bud Fox'' moment, the obligatory episode in these lost-in-Manhattan memoirs when the protagonist must replicate that memorable scene from Wall Street when Charlie Sheen, having sacrificed himself to Gordon Gekko and the gods of capitalism, stares out at the Manhattan skyline and asks, plaintively, ''Who am I?'' Mr. Duff's moment comes the morning after his 34th birthday party, when he wakes on the roof deck of his triplex, fires up a marijuana cigarette and realizes how hollow all his newfound wealth and party-hardy friends make him feel. ''Why,'' he wonders, ''do I feel so empty?'' My bet was all that cocaine; whatever the reason, I didn't much care. I just wanted to smack the guy. That said, this is an entertaining and cautionary tale, well worth your time. I can imagine parents out there who might give it to children pondering Wall Street careers. Of course, should it excite rather than frighten your budding Bud Fox, you might consider urging an alternative career path.Accounts ¶Nissan Motor Company expanded its relationship with TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, by naming TBWA as the global marketing agency for the reintroduction of the company's Datsun brand. Spending has not been determined. Datsun was the original name for the Nissan brand; it is being brought back as a lower-price car line aimed at young, middle-class drivers in fast-growing markets like India, Indonesia and Russia. The worldwide creative and strategic work for Datsun will be led by TBWA Hakuhodo, Tokyo, and TBWA London. TBWA is also the creative agency for the Nissan and Infiniti brands sold by Nissan Motor. ¶Vonage Holdings, Holmdel, N.J., selected two agencies for assignments that had been handled by agencies owned by the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at $150 million. JWT New York, part of WPP, will handle the Vonage creative account, which had been handled by TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of Omnicom. And Horizon Media, New York, will handle the Vonage media account, which had been handled by PHD, part of the Omnicom Media Group division of Omnicom. ¶Chopin, the Polish vodka owned by Tadeusz J. Dorda, named Clarity Coverdale Fury, Minneapolis, as its worldwide agency of record. Spending has not been determined. Clarity Coverdale helped introduce Chopin in North America in 1997 and was the brand's agency for eight years; recently, the account had been handled internally. People ¶Deanie Elsner, president for the beverages business at the Kraft Foods Group, Northfield, Ill., was named the company's first chief marketing officer. The Kraft Foods Group was formed after Kraft Foods spun off its snack foods brands into a stand-alone company, Mondelez International. The Kraft Foods Group sells former Kraft Foods products like Kraft cheeses, Maxwell House coffee and Oscar Mayer meats. ¶Chris Tussing rejoined DDB Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, as global business director, overseeing the agency's new Reebok account. He had most recently been account managing director at the Chicago office of McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, and earlier in his career was group account director at the DDB West division of DDB, based in San Francisco. ¶Lori Erdos, business development director for digital at Smithsonian Media, based in the New York office, was named to a new post, publisher for media and business development. Smithsonian Media is part of the Smithsonian Enterprises unit of the Smithsonian Institution. Miscellany ¶Peter Arnell, who in 2011 left his agency, the Arnell Group, New York, in a dispute with its parent, the Omnicom Group, has returned to the industry, working on his own on a new campaign for a former Arnell Group client, GNC Holdings. The campaign, carrying the theme ''Respect yourself,'' is being created by Mr. Arnell and an internal marketing and communications team at GNC, the company said. A lawsuit between Mr. Arnell and Omnicom was settled last year. ''We are pleased to once again be working directly with Peter,'' Joseph Fortunato, chief executive of GNC, said in a statement. ¶Parry Branding Group, a brand identity agency for the health and wellness market, was opened in Brooklyn by Vince Parry. ¶Philabundance, Philadelphia, an organization that specializes in hunger relief, named CBX, New York, a brand agency and retail design consultancy, to design a prototype for Fare & Square, a nonprofit grocery store that is scheduled to open this summer in Chester, Pa. The store will sell staples like produce, dairy and meats at everyday low prices to residents of Chester, which has been identified as a so-called food desert.Connecticut on Monday became the first state to pass a bill that would require food manufacturers to label products that contain genetically modified ingredients -- but only after other conditions are met. Gov. Dannel P. Malloy has said he would sign the bill into law, after reaching an agreement with the legislature to include a provision that the law would not take effect unless four other states, at least one of which shares a border with Connecticut, passed similar regulations. The Connecticut bill also hinges on those states including Northeastern states with a total population of at least 20 million. ''This bill strikes an important balance by ensuring the consumers' right to know what is in their food while shielding our small businesses from liability that could leave them at a competitive disadvantage,'' Mr. Malloy said in a statement issued over the weekend after negotiations on the necessary provisions. The legislature passed the bill on Monday, 134 to 3. More than 20 other states are considering labeling laws, including New York, Maine and Vermont. Early polling suggests widespread support for a ballot initiative that would require labeling in Washington, as concern spread about the impact of genetically engineered salmon and apples on two of the state's marquee businesses. In 2005, Alaska passed a law requiring the labeling of all genetically engineered fish and shellfish, but Connecticut would become the first state to adopt labeling broadly. Cathleen Enright, executive vice president for food and agriculture at the Biotechnology Industry Organization, said the industry supported voluntary labeling for genetically engineered ingredients. Dr. Enright noted that the Food and Drug Administration typically required labeling of foods only when issues like food safety, consumer health or nutrition were at stake. She also said labeling by an individual state might put that state's industry and businesses at a disadvantage compared with other states. Andrew Kimbrell, executive director of the Center for Food Safety, called Connecticut's move an ''important first step,'' and ''a reminder of where the tide is going on this issue.'' Mark Kastel, co-director of the Cornucopia Institute, a liberal farm policy research group, said that while the triggers were unusual, they could work to the labeling movement's advantage. ''The hurdles in the Connecticut bill, if surmounted, would mean a critical mass in the marketplace that would emulate the impacts that would have materialized if California had passed its ballot initiative,'' Mr. Kastel said. Big food and seed companies like Monsanto and Dow spent tens of millions of dollars last fall to help defeat a ballot measure in California that would have required labeling. But whether other states will go as far as Connecticut is unclear. In New Mexico, the state Senate voted not to adopt the report of its committee recommending labeling, effectively killing the labeling effort there. Efforts in Vermont, Hawaii and Maine have stalled. And on Monday, the New York labeling bill was defeated in committee after members, including several who were co-sponsors of the legislation, were lobbied intensely by a representative from the Council for Biotechnology Information, a trade group whose members are BASF, Bayer CropScience, Dow AgroScience, DuPont Monsanto and Syngenta -- all major makers of genetically modified seeds and pesticides that work with them. Assemblywoman Linda B. Rosenthal, Democrat of Manhattan, said there were more than 40 co-sponsors when it went into the committee. ''We had the votes lined up to pass this, and then the lobbyist for Monsanto and the other big seed companies showed up and was speaking to members and calling them and visiting their offices,'' she said. Ms. Rosenthal said she intended to continue to press for a labeling bill in New York.ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released this week includes minutes from the Federal Reserve's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in July, and the National Association of Realtors sales of existing homes for July (Wednesday); the Conference Board's index of leading indicators and the Labor Department's initial weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and the Commerce Department's new home sales for July (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results this week include J. C. Penney, Home Depot, Best Buy, BHP Billiton and Glencore Xstrata (Tuesday); Hewlett-Packard, Staples, Target, Toll Brothers, Heineken and China Telecom (Wednesday); and Dollar Tree, Gap and GameStop (Thursday). IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, filings are due for objections to Detroit's bankruptcy in federal court. On Tuesday, Kodak is seeking court approval of its bankruptcy plan. On Thursday, central bankers and policy makers meet in Jackson Hole, Wyo. OVERSEAS On Tuesday, the European Commission reports on euro zone construction. On Wednesday, Britain reports on its budget deficit for July. On Thursday, HSBC releases a preliminary reading of its China manufacturing purchasing managers index for August. On Friday, Britain releases its second estimate of growth in its gross domestic product in the second quarter, and the European Commission reports on euro zone consumer confidence.  PepsiCo said it would no longer label its Naked juices as ''all natural,'' after a lawsuit complained that the drinks contained ingredients that did not fit that bill. The company also agreed to pay $9 million to settle the lawsuit. PepsiCo said it used an ''added boost of vitamins'' in some of the drinks. But the lawsuit said that the vitamins were synthetic ingredients, including a fiber made by Archer Daniels Midland. PepsiCo did not respond when asked about the fiber.Good news about hiring and spending at retail businesses helped send the stock market sharply higher on Thursday. A pair of government reports offered investors more encouragement that the economic recovery would continue, even as Europe and Japan struggle. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 23.84 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,636.36. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 180.85 points, or 1.2 percent, to 15,176.08. The Nasdaq composite rose 44.94 points, or 1.3 percent, to 3,445.37. The gains were broad. All 10 industry groups within the S.& P. 500 rose, led by retailers and other consumer-discretionary companies. Gannett, the media company, rose 34 percent, the most in the S.& P. 500, after it said it would buy another media company, Belo, based in Dallas. ''The underlying fundamentals of our economy are clearly doing much better,'' said Brad McMillan, chief investment officer for Commonwealth Financial in Waltham, Mass. Markets have been turbulent over the last three weeks. The S.& P. 500 rose 17 percent from the start of the year to May 21 when it hit a high of 1,669. The index began sliding the next day after the Federal Reserve said it would consider pulling back its support for the economy this year. Since then, the index has fallen as low as 1,608, a trading range of 3.7 percent. Investors have been debating when the Fed will begin slowing its bond purchases, and they have been worrying about the results. They could get a better sense on Wednesday, when the bank releases its policy statement and when the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, holds another news conference. ''A lot of investors are worried about the Fed,'' said Robert F. Baur, chief global economist at Principal Global Investors in Des Moines. ''That's going to create a bumpy market, at least until they get some clarity on that. But we really think the U.S. is in pretty good shape.'' Mr. Baur said he thought the economic recovery would pick up speed later this year, which could help push corporate earnings and the stock market higher. The latest positive news came early Thursday when the government said the number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits fell 12,000, to 334,000, below what economists had expected. Jim O'Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note to clients that the government's weekly numbers, while volatile, ''continue to signal an improving labor market.'' The government also reported that retail sales increased 0.6 percent in May from April. That was up from a 0.1 percent gain in April and the fastest pace since February. Some investors, like Anton Bayer, the chief executive of Up Capital Management in Granite Bay, Calif., say financial markets will falter when the Fed and other central banks begin to pump less money into the system. The Fed has artificially propped up the economy, he said, which is why investors are nervous about what will happen when the central bank starts buying fewer bonds every month. ''What the markets are seeing is the economic engines are not being primed,'' Mr. Bayer said. ''The fear is of the stimulus going away and exposing an economy that is not really chugging along. It's the big risk.'' The 10-year Treasury note rose 22/32 to 96 15/32, with the yield dropping to 2.15 percent from 2.23 percent late Wednesday. In Japan, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index slumped 6.4 percent as doubts grew that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's economic turnaround plan would succeed. The Japanese market is down 20 percent from a high reached on May 22, the definition of a bear market.''There will be less opinion, less yelling and fewer celebrity sightings.'' Ehab Al Shihabi, acting chief executive of Al Jazeera America, a new cable channel created specifically for consumers in the United States that promises 14 hours of straight news every day, along with documentaries and fewer commercials than other news channels. ''Everyone is trying to position themselves for the new style of information technology. The fittest will survive.'' Meg Whitman, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, which announced several significant personnel changes, along with sharply lower revenue and narrower operating profit margins.In a span of just three days, the sales of three giants of the old-media world -- The Washington Post, The Boston Globe and Newsweek -- were announced, at prices a fraction of the properties' former value. Wealthy men bought The Post and The Globe; Newsweek was sold to a company that hardly anyone had heard of. The Post announcement prompted the publisher of The New York Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., to say that the newspaper was not for sale. Compare the three recent sales to the $1.1 billion fetched earlier this year by Tumblr, a microblogging site that allows users to quickly post words and pictures and whose founder, David Karp, once said advertising ''really turns our stomachs.'' Yahoo bought Tumblr for more than the combined sale prices of The Post and The Globe. (Newsweek's sale price has not been disclosed.) Mr. Karp was reported to receive $250 million from the sale -- as much as Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon, paid for all of The Washington Post. Tumblr's revenue is not public, but it was reported to have made $13 million in sales last year. Tumblr sells ads now, and its purchase price suggests the market believes that its model is the way of the future.''When so many people from a single hedge fund have engaged in insider trading, it is not a coincidence.'' Preet Bharara, the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, after authorities announced criminal charges against SAC Capital Advisors, including four counts of securities fraud and one count of wire fraud. ''I have absolutely no doubt that with cheaper research comes greater risk.'' Eric G. Campbell, a professor of health care policy at Harvard Medical School. Executives at the British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline were warned nearly two years ago about problems with the way the company conducted research at its drug development center in China, an internal audit found. Drug research is less expensive in China than in some other countries. ''Soon we'll have more revenue on mobile than desktop.'' Mark Zuckerberg, founder and C.E.O. of Facebook, which said that it had increased its mobile advertising from virtually nothing a year ago to 41 percent of its total ad revenue of $1.6 billion in the second quarter. ''It's a real challenge not to use salt, fats and sugar.'' Kristopher Plummer, better known as Chef Plum from his appearances on the Food Network and ''The Taste'' on ABC. He is on a team that is working to improve the nutritional quality of PepsiCo's food products without losing recognizable flavors.MLB Advanced Media, the digital media company of Major League Baseball, is branching out into the licensing business by acquiring the worldwide distribution rights for a coming concert in New York City's Central Park. The concert -- called the Global Citizen Festival -- has no connection to baseball, and that's partly the point. MLB Advanced Media says it wants to distribute all sorts of live events in the future, some free to users and some on a subscription basis. ''We want to gain experience selling worldwide rights,'' said Bob Bowman, the chief executive of the division, which is jointly owned by the league's 30 clubs. The clubs all stand to profit as the division sells its live-streaming services to more and more purposes. Already, MLB Advanced Media provides the back-end technology for Glenn Beck's Internet television channel, ESPN3's streams of sporting events and an in-flight TV service on Southwest Airlines, in addition to the hundreds of out-of-market baseball games that it makes available through MLB.tv. Mr. Bowman said the league saw opportunities to own the distribution rights to programming, just like television networks historically have. It is not the only digitally oriented company thinking along these lines: last week, according to the technology news Web site AllThingsD, Google's chief executive, Larry Page, and the National Football League commissioner, Roger Goodell, met and discussed, among other things, the Sunday Ticket package of football games that DirecTV currently distributes. DirecTV's rights to Sunday Ticket expire at the end of the 2014 football season, and Google could outbid the satellite company in the future. When the Google-N.F.L. possibility initially surfaced in news reports, ''no one laughed, no one thought it was odd,'' Mr. Bowman said, asserting that it was just a matter of time before such situations start to come true. With the Global Citizen Festival, MLB Advanced Media is turning around and distributing the concert -- which it will produce with AEG, the live-event giant -- in a number of ways. ''This is the first time we've ever purchased worldwide rights for TV, radio -- well, what we used to call TV, what we used to call radio -- and digital,'' Mr. Bowman said. Stevie Wonder, Alicia Keys, John Mayer and Kings of Leon will perform at the second annual concert, which will be held in Central Park in September. The event is a fund-raiser for the Global Poverty Project, an antipoverty advocacy group. ''The idea is to maximize the eyeballs for it,'' said Noah Garden, an executive vice president at MLB Advanced Media. He said it would be live-streamed on Web sites like YouTube and The New York Times and will most likely be repackaged into a two-hour special for a major television network. (Those negotiations are continuing.) ''Live events are content that people want. I think you're going to see more and more of these,'' Mr. Bowman said.THE notion of a ''science of cities'' seems contradictory. Science is a realm of grand theory and precise measurement, while cities are messy agglomerations of people and human foible. But science is precisely the ambition of New York University's Center for Urban Science and Progress. Founded last year, the center has been getting under way in recent weeks, moving into new office space and firing off its first project proposal to the National Science Foundation. The center's director is Steven E. Koonin, a Brooklyn native and graduate of Stuyvesant High School, who came to N.Y.U. after a stint in the Obama administration as the under secretary for science in the Department of Energy. He is both a theoretical physicist and science policy expert. The center shouldn't lack for intellectual rigor. The initiative at N.Y.U. is part of a broader trend: the global drive to apply modern sensor, computing and data-sifting technologies to urban environments, in what has become known as ''smart city'' technology. The goals are big gains in efficiency and quality of life by using digital technology to better manage traffic and curb the consumption of water and electricity, for example. By some estimates, water and electricity use can be cut by 30 to 50 percent over the course of a decade. Cities from Stockholm to Singapore are deep into smart city projects. The market looms as big, lucrative business for technology companies. ''The Smart City movement,'' according to a report this month from IDC, a technology research firm, ''is emerging and growing as a significant force of innovation and investment at all levels of government.'' The N.Y.U. center's partners include technology companies like I.B.M., Cisco Systems and Xerox, as well as universities and the New York City government. City governments, like other institutions, have collected data for years to try to become more efficient. There have been some notable achievements, like CompStat, the New York Police Department's system for identifying crime patterns, introduced in the mid-1990s and later widely adopted elsewhere. What is different today, says Dr. Koonin, is that digital technologies -- sensors, wireless communication, storage and clever software algorithms -- are advancing so rapidly that it is becoming possible to see and measure activities in an urban environment as never before. ''We can build an observatory to be able to see the pulse of the city in detail and as a whole,'' Dr. Koonin explains. Dr. Koonin's digital ''observatory'' of urban life raises questions about privacy. He is keenly aware of that issue, and vows that the center is engaged in science rather than surveillance. For example, individuals' names or tax identification numbers would be stripped from personal records. The collected data, he says, will be the raw material for modeling outcomes -- say, the steps required to reduce electricity consumption in a high-rise office building or in an individual apartment. Those modeled predictions, he adds, can guide policy or inform citizens. ''I'd like to create SimCity for real,'' Dr. Koonin says, referring to the classic computer simulation game. To help, Dr. Koonin is forging partnerships with government laboratories to tap their expertise in building complex computer simulations, like climate models for weather prediction. The path to SimCity will come step by step, through tackling specific projects. The first one is a program to monitor and analyze noise. The largest single cause of complaints to New York's 311 phone and online service is noise. It is a quality-of-life issue, Dr. Koonin says, and one related to health, especially when noise disrupts sleep. The 10-member project team includes music professors, computer scientists and graduate students. The group will use the city's 311 data, but also plans to employ wireless sensors -- tiny ones outside windows, noise meters on traffic lights and street corners, perhaps a smartphone app for crowdsourced data gathering. To inform policy choices, data on noise limits for vehicles and muffler costs might be added to the street-level noise readings. Then, computer simulations could predict the likely effect of enforcement steps, charges or incentives to buy properly working mufflers for vehicles without them. The project, Dr. Koonin says, might also pull in data on traffic flows, garbage pickup times and building classifications. For example, he says, a 2 a.m. garbage pickup could be routed to a neighborhood with little residential housing. The hope, he says, is that a problem many people view as an inevitable, if grating fact of urban life can be made less severe. ''It's the beginning of what we want to do,'' he explains. Another project on the drawing board is technology for capturing thermal images of buildings across much of the city, as a starting point for research on energy use. The center will focus its research and resources on one city -- New York, as ''a living laboratory.'' That may give the center a leg up, since New York, under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, is at the forefront of using data to guide operations. In 2010, the city even set up a team of data scientists for special projects in the mayor's office. ONE problem the team tackled was illegal conversions, landlords packing far more people into an apartment building or house than its zoning permits. These locations are fire hazards. Data from 19 agencies -- including late tax payments, repair permits, foreclosure records and ages of the buildings -- were mined to predict where to send the city's 200 building inspectors, who field more than 20,000 complaints a year. Inspectors responding to complaints usually find high-risk conditions 13 percent of the time. Guided by data predictions, inspectors greatly improved their odds when pursuing complaint reports, finding those risky conditions 70 percent of the time, says Michael P. Flowers, analytics director in the mayor's office. The city government is committed to giving the N.Y.U. center access to all its public data. That is a rich asset not only for research, but also for its potential to change government operations and public behavior. In many ''smart city'' projects, ''the single biggest impact is transparency -- the effect of measurement and communicating the data,'' observes Jonathan R. Woetzel, a director of McKinsey & Company in Shanghai, who heads the firm's consulting work with cities. Communicating effectively with data, experts say, requires skills beyond technology. Jurij R. Paraszczak, director of smarter cities research at I.B.M., pointed to a water-management pilot study in Dubuque, Iowa, in which 150 households were equipped with sensors to measure and analyze their water use. They had the data, but the households were also grouped into teams for an informal competition. Water use dropped by 7 percent in two months. ''People live in cities,'' Dr. Paraszczak says. ''So much of the equation is not just the data but how you encourage people to change their behavior.'' The social ingredients of motivation, habit and incentives, according to Dr. Koonin, will be part of the research agenda at the N.Y.U. center. ''The approach we're taking here is from sensors to sociologists. This has got to be science with a social dimension.''Five big names on Madison Avenue are joining forces to start an organization devoted to promoting what is known as cross-cultural marketing: pitches directed at a general market whose demographic makeup is becoming much more diverse. The organization, called the Cross Cultural Marketing and Communications Association, is being started by the American Association of Advertising Agencies; Draftfcb, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; PepsiCo; and two divisions of WPP, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and the Millward Brown research company. The new association plans to introduce itself at the Total Market Industry Conference, which is set for Sept. 9 and 10 at the Ogilvy & Mather headquarters on the West Side of Manhattan. Speakers are to discuss subjects like demographic trends, how to engage new kinds of consumers, technological trends and how to attract and keep talented employees. Cross-cultural marketing tries to reach diverse consumer groups, addressing similarities rather than differences. An example would be a recent commercial for Cheerios cereal, sold by General Mills, which featured an interracial family. That approach diverges from multicultural marketing, which is directed at specific demographic groups like Hispanics or African-Americans. ''The industry says you have to be in the general market box or in the multicultural marketing box,'' said Jeffrey L. Bowman, the founder of the new organization. ''Cross-cultural is inclusive of both boxes.'' Mr. Bowman's day job is as the cross-cultural practice lead at Ogilvy & Mather, where he is also a managing director and senior partner. He has long advocated an approach that recognizes a ''total market'' rather than more narrowly focused marketing messages; before speaking to a reporter, he said this week, he had attended ''a total market summit with Kimberly-Clark.'' The new association is ''not a commercial for Ogilvy'' or its cross-cultural practice, Mr. Bowman said. ''We should think of the total market as a new revenue vertical for the industry.'' A member of the advisory board of the new association, Vita Harris, executive vice president and chief global strategy officer at Draftfcb, said one of its goals was ''to start to ignite a community of people taking the total market seriously.'' A total market approach requires agencies and advertisers to have their ''fingers on the pulse of consumers,'' she added, and ''a lot of that comes out of hiring people who reflect the consumer base'' -- that is, having a work force that is more diverse. Ms. Harris and Mr. Bowman acknowledged that the new association joined a lengthy list of industry associations and organizations. ''We want to complement the other associations out there'' rather than compete with them for attention and resources, Mr. Bowman said, adding: ''If we're successful, other organizations will adopt the total market approach. If we go away, great, it would mean we'll have been successful.''Reluctant to say it aloud, Natalie Stack wrote her 12th birthday wish on a restaurant napkin: ''To have my disease go away forever.'' A decade later, her wish is a step closer to being realized. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a new drug developed with early financing from a foundation that Natalie's parents established in response to that plea. The drug, which will be sold by the Raptor Pharmaceutical Corporation under the name Procysbi, is for nephropathic cystinosis, an extremely rare inherited disease that, if untreated, typically destroys the kidneys by age 10 and even with a kidney transplant can lead to death by early adulthood. The story behind Procysbi's development is yet another example of the important role that determined parents and disease foundations can play in supporting drug development, particularly for rare diseases. But Procysbi's approval could also raise troubling questions about whether society can afford to pay extremely high prices for drugs that treat rare diseases. That is because Procysbi is not a new chemical entity, but rather a more convenient and more tolerable version of an existing drug. The existing drug costs about $8,000 a year, whereas Procysbi will cost $250,000 on average. High prices are typical for drugs to treat so-called orphan diseases. The health care system has tolerated that because, given the small numbers of patients, the overall cost is not that high. But as the orphan drug business model becomes increasingly popular among pharmaceutical companies, the collective cost of the drugs is beginning to mount. The market research firm EvaluatePharma recently predicted that orphan drugs will constitute 15.9 percent of spending on prescription drugs by 2018, up from 5.1 percent in 1998. And a survey of 50 insurers and pharmacy benefit managers by J. P. Morgan found that drugs for rare diseases would be one of the areas increasingly subject to scrutiny and possible restrictions on use. While many medicines are unpleasant to take, the existing drug for cystinosis -- Cystagon, from Mylan Inc. -- literally stinks. It has a strong rotten-egg smell that causes bad breath and body odor. It also causes nausea, vomiting and other abdominal problems. Moreover, it must be taken every six hours, which means patients have to get up in the middle of the night, or their parents must wake them. Procysbi has the same ingredient as Cystagon but consists of enteric-coated spheres for delayed release. It can be taken every 12 hours instead of every six. The gastrointestinal side effect, halitosis and body odor, are reduced, though not eliminated, according to the parents of children with the disease. Christopher M. Starr, co-founder and chief executive of Raptor, said he expected it would take time to persuade insurers to bear the extra cost. ''I get it,'' he said. ''It seems trivial when you first look at this.'' He said doubters would think: ''You're dying of a disease. Take it every six hours if that is what you need to do.'' But Dr. Starr argued that the ''subtle advantages'' of Procysbi ''add up to a significant benefit.'' He said as many as 80 percent of patients skip doses of Cystagon, which studies have shown can lead to more rapid deterioration of the kidneys, eyes and other organs. The more tolerable Procysbi should allow people to better take their medicines. Dr. Starr said the price reflected the value of the drug and the need to recoup Raptor's development costs. The company's regulatory filings show it has spent $37.4 million on research and development of the cystinosis drug from the company's inception in 2005 through the end of 2012. Total corporate expenses in that period were $110 million. Procysbi is the first drug approved for Raptor, which is based in Novato, Calif. Analysts expect sales could exceed $100 million annually. Shares of Raptor closed at $6.90 Tuesday, up 5 percent. Procysbi treats a very rare disease. Only about 500 people in the United States, and 3,000 worldwide, are estimated to have cystinosis, according to the F.D.A. The disease is characterized by a buildup in cells of the amino acid cystine. The buildup damages the kidneys and eyes and eventually the thyroid gland, muscles and other organs. Procysbi works by breaking down cystine. Its active ingredient is cysteamine, the same as in Cystagon. Cysteamine was first shown to work in the 1970s by a team led by Dr. Jerry A. Schneider at the University of California, San Diego. The F.D.A. approved Cystagon in 1994. Mylan said Cystagon was not a financially meaningful product to the company. ''We will monitor the market acceptance of new treatments for cystinosis and continue to provide access to Cystagon as long as it continues to fill an unmet need and patient demand for it exists,'' Mylan said in a statement Tuesday. When Natalie Stack was born in 1991, ''we were told we'd be lucky if Natalie lived to graduate from high school,'' said her mother, Nancy Stack, who lives in Corona del Mar in Southern California. But it was not until reading Natalie's birthday wish in 2003 that Ms. Stack and her husband, Geoffrey, a real estate developer, formed the Cystinosis Research Foundation, raising almost $400,000 at an initial cocktail party. At about the same time, Dr. Ranjan Dohil, a pediatric gastroenterologist at the University of California, San Diego, who was exploring why Cystagon was so hard to tolerate, stumbled upon something. Testing a child who had a feeding tube, Dr. Dohil accidentally delivered the drug to the child's small intestine rather than the stomach. He found the drug was absorbed better. To investigate further, Dr. Dohil, who had been one of Natalie's doctors, received almost $350,000 from the Stacks' new foundation to test more children, delivering the drug alternately to their stomachs or intestines through a tube that started in the nose. ''It was actually a real leap of faith on their part,'' Dr. Dohil said of the Stacks. Dr. Dohil observed that delivering the drug into the intestine every 12 hours seemed as effective as putting it into the stomach every six hours. So with more than $600,000 in additional money from the foundation, he had some Cystagon pills coated so they would pass through the stomach and reach the intestine. Seven children, including Natalie, began taking them. ''Once they took it twice a day, it was hard to stop,'' Dr. Dohil said. The university licensed the patents to Raptor in exchange for payments and royalties. The Cystinosis Research Foundation will not receive any proceeds from sales of Procysbi since it did not stipulate profit-sharing when it gave its grants to Dr. Dohil. To win approval, Raptor ran a six-week trial involving 43 patients whose disease was already being well controlled by Cystagon. The trial showed that Procysbi, which was called RP103 during its development, was no worse than Cystagon in controlling the amount of cystine in white blood cells. The trial was too short, however, to demonstrate that RP103 made patients take their medicine more faithfully or preserved kidney function better than Cystagon. But Dr. Starr of Raptor said most patients have continued taking Procysbi since the trial ended and kidney function has been preserved. Teresa Partington of Sacramento, whose 8-year-old twins took Procysbi in the clinical trial, said the new drug was a godsend, eliminating not only the nighttime awakenings but the midday dose taken at school. She said she had talked to her children's classes when they were taking Cystagon to explain why the children might smell bad. With Procysbi, ''I can't smell it on my son anymore at all,'' she said. ''I still smell it occasionally on my daughter.'' She said her daughter no longer vomits, though her son occasionally does. Ms. Partington, who is on the board of the foundation, said patients and their parents owed gratitude to Ms. Stack. ''She pretty much made all this happen,'' she said. Natalie -- who declined, through her mother, to be interviewed -- is a senior at Georgetown University interested in becoming a social worker. She is still taking the enteric-coated Cystagon she started taking in 2006 as part of Dr. Dohil's study, but she will soon switch to Procysbi. Her kidneys have held steady and she is one of the few patients her age not to have undergone a kidney transplant, Ms. Stack said. Still, studies have shown that even those who take their medicine religiously can suffer organ damage eventually. Ms. Stack said Procysbi should be covered by insurers. ''It does seem extreme to have it that high,'' she said. ''But as a community, our bottom line is getting better treatment for our children. And we know that this will change our kids' lives.''A new report by a public health advocate criticizes the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, a trade group presenting some 74,000 dietitians, for allowing corporate sponsorships of its organization. The report, by Michele Simon, a lawyer who specializes in legal issues involving the food industry, raises questions about the role big food companies play in the continuing education of the nation's nutrition experts and the ability of the group to challenge the industry on matters of health and nutrition. Among her findings were that the number of food companies and trade groups that are paid sponsors of the academy more than tripled between 2001 and 2011 -- to 38, from 10 -- and that roughly 23 percent of about 300 speakers at its annual meeting had undisclosed financial ties to the food industry. Ryan O'Malley, a spokesman for the academy, said the organization could not comment without seeing the report, which was to be published on Ms. Simon's Web site late Tuesday. ConAgra, the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, Kellogg's, General Mills, Aramark, Mars and the National Dairy Council are among the organization's major sponsors. Some sponsors become an ''Academy Partner,'' which entitles them to educate nutrition professionals about the health benefits of their products, co-sponsor events and conduct educational sessions at meetings. They also can use the academy's logo in marketing campaigns. Ms. Simon, author of ''Appetite for Profit: How the Food Industry Undermines Our Health and How to Fight Back,'' said she decided to study the relationship between the food industry and the academy after hearing complaints from dietitians. Questions about corporate influence have bedeviled the organization for years. In 2007, it revamped its corporate sponsorship program to address concerns among its members. In its 2011 annual report, the latest available, the academy said corporate sponsorships accounted for $1.85 million, or about 5 percent of its roughly $34 million in revenue, down from 9 percent in each of the previous two years. Whether that figure accounts for all of its corporate and trade group support is unclear. Margo Wootan, an academy member who is director of nutrition policy at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, said leadership and other changes the organization had made had helped curb the influence of companies. ''Ten years ago, the academy was really very closely tied to the food and beverage industry,'' Ms. Wootan said. ''But they really have cleaned up their act.'' The academy is conducting a survey among some members to gauge their opinions about corporate sponsorship. In a survey of 2,968 members two years ago published in the Journal of Hunger and Environmental Nutrition, 80 percent of the respondents said that the group was endorsing its corporate sponsors by allowing the sponsorships. Aaron Flores, a dietitian in Los Angeles, dropped his membership because of the organization's ties to industry. ''By taking money from companies like Coke and Pepsi and Hershey, I think it makes us seem like a partner in their message,'' Mr. Flores said.Hewlett-Packard has received a number of inquiries from would-be buyers for its Autonomy and Electronic Data Systems units in recent weeks, though the technology company isn't interested in selling at the moment, a person briefed on the matter said on Wednesday. The volume of calls from potential suitors and bankers picked up after H.P. filed its annual report with regulators on Dec. 28, this person said. In the securities filing, the company said, "We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives." That is fairly standard legal boilerplate. But H.P. has been struggling with poor performance at both Autonomy and E.D.S., having significantly written down the value of those acquisitions. The company has also claimed to have found accounting and disclosure issues at Autonomy, and has forwarded findings from an internal inquiry to securities regulators in the United States and the division's home in Britain. Some of the expressions of interest may also have arisen amid the sudden flurry of news coverage surrounding a potential leveraged buyout of Dell. Still, H.P.'s management team, led by its chief executive, Meg Whitman, is not interested in selling what it considers to be "core" businesses. The company is focused on growing its enterprise business, which sells software and services to corporate clients. Shares in H.P. were up 3 percent by late afternoon on Wednesday, to $17.03, after The Wall Street Journal reported news of the inquiries. The company's stock remains down some 35 percent for the last 12 months. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.Melissa Mae Williams and John Crawford Aram Omartian were married Saturday at the Inn at Willow Grove in Orange, Va. Donald L. Hughes, a marriage commissioner of Orange County, Va., officiated at a secular ceremony that was led by Antha Nicole Williams, the bride's sister. The ceremony included a reading of ''Union,'' an essay by Robert Fulghum. Ms. Williams, 30, is keeping her name. She is the national political director for the Sierra Club, managing campaigns that endorse political candidates and members of Congress who support the club's mission. She graduated from Harvard and received a master's in international political economics from Suffolk University in Boston. She is a daughter of Janet E. Collins of Arlington, Va., and R. Gary Williams of St. Mary's City, Md., and a stepdaughter of Linda Sharp Williams. The bride's father retired as a consultant for the Clark Group, an environmental consultancy in Washington, where he conducted environmental impact analyses of corporate and government projects. He was also an adjunct professor of sociology in the Duke Environmental Leadership Program, a weeklong executive education program at Duke University in Durham, N.C. Her mother works in Washington as the senior manager of corporate regulatory affairs for the DuPont Company. The bride's stepmother retired as a science teacher at the Arlington Science Focus School. Mr. Omartian, 31, works at Delcor Technology Solutions, a technology consultancy in Silver Spring, Md., as an information technology consultant to nonprofit organizations and trade associations. He graduated from the University of Delaware. He is the son of Karen Chapman Omartian and Arthur A. Omartian of St. Albans, Vt. The groom's mother, who is retired, was a physical therapist in the Arlington Public Schools in Virginia. His father, also retired, was a civilian employee of the Pentagon, where he supervised information technology acquisitions for the Defense Department.E-mail:carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n  In a refracted media world where information comes from everywhere, the line between two ''isms'' -- journalism and activism -- is becoming difficult to discern. As American news media have pulled back from international coverage, nongovernmental organizations have filled in the gaps with on-the-scene reports and Web sites. State houses have lost reporters who used to provide accountability, so citizens have turned to digital enterprises, some of which have partisan agendas. The question of who is a journalist and who is an activist and whether they can be one and the same continues to roar along, most recently in the instance of Glenn Greenwald's reporting for The Guardian on the secrets revealed by Edward J. Snowden. Sometimes, a writer's motives or leanings emerge between the lines over time, but you need only to read a few sentences of Mr. Greenwald's blog to know exactly where he stands. Mr. Greenwald is an activist who is deeply suspicious of government and the national security apparatus, and he is a zealous defender of privacy and civil rights. He is also a journalist. Taxonomy is important, partly because when it comes to divulging national secrets, the law grants journalists special protections that are afforded to no one else. To exclude some writers from the profession is to leave them naked before a government that is deeply unhappy that its secret business is on wide display. In that context, ''activist'' has become a code word for someone who is driven by an agenda beyond seeking information on the public's behalf. I found out as much last week when an article I wrote with a colleague about WikiLeaks called Alexa O'Brien an ''activist.'' Ms. O'Brien is certainly that. She played a crucial role in the digital outreach of Occupy Wall Street, was involved with the U.S. Day of Rage rally and began covering the Bradley Manning trial partly to protest the lack of information and transparency in the case. But she also describes herself as an independent journalist, and for that matter, so have I in a previous column. She asked for (and received) a correction in The New York Times, pointing out that I had cited her work in my column. ''You are reading my journalistic work, using my journalistic work, capitalizing off my journalistic work, and linking to my journalistic work about the largest criminal investigation ever into a publisher and its source,'' she wrote from Fort Meade, Md., where she has been comprehensively transcribing the Manning trial. In other words, if I believed she was executing a political agenda rather than a journalistic one, why was I referencing her work? The notion of journalist as political and ideological eunuch seems silly, even to some who call themselves journalists. ''Truth is not the hole in the middle of the doughnut, it is on the doughnut somewhere,'' a veteran reporter whom I worked with at an alternative weekly in Minneapolis once told me. What he meant was that articles that strive only to be in the middle -- moving from one hand to the other in an effort to be nicely balanced -- end up going nowhere. I was just out of journalism school, brimming with freshly taught tenets of fairness and objectivity, and already those values were in question. Still, the fight between objectivity and subjectivity is a fairly modern one. In the 1800s, journalism was underwritten by powerful people, the government or political parties. It was only when an economic incentive for information absent a political agenda took hold that an independent press also emerged. It makes sense that as the financial rewards for traditional journalism have eroded, advocacy journalism has gained new traction. It is now up to the consumer to assemble a news diet of his or her choice, adding in news that is produced by people who have skin in the game. ''We are beginning to realize that journalists come in a variety of shapes and sizes and come with a variety of commitments,'' said Jay Rosen, a journalism professor at New York University. ''It isn't that the fact that someone is an activist is irrelevant, it's just that it does not necessarily mean they are the opposite of a journalist.'' In the instance of Mr. Snowden and his leaks, something of a hybrid model for the big story arose. Mr. Snowden was said to have chosen Mr. Greenwald as a conduit for a leak because he felt they shared values. The matching ideologies of source and journalist made the story happen in the first place. Then The Guardian's global presence and historically liberal audience provided a sturdy platform, and its newsroom offered editorial muscle. Janine Gibson, the editor in chief of The Guardian's Web site in the United States, oversaw the coverage. She said that a lot has changed in the new editorial landscape, but that articles still have to hold up under intense scrutiny. ''I think to call Glenn an activist is a red herring, an attempt to put him in a box and minimize what he does,'' she said. ''He has a point of view, but he is meticulous and forensic in his approach and is extremely careful about getting it right.'' There are people in government and in the news media who believe that Mr. Greenwald is not a journalist, and should be prosecuted for his role in publishing national secrets. ''It is not a matter of being an activist or a journalist; it's a false dichotomy,'' Mr. Greenwald said in a phone call from Brazil, where he lives. ''It is a matter of being honest or dishonest. All activists are not journalists, but all real journalists are activists. Journalism has a value, a purpose -- to serve as a check on power.'' And as a journalist and activist, Mr. Greenwald could not resist a jab. ''I have seen all sorts of so-called objective journalists who have all kinds of assumptions in every sentence they write,'' he said. ''Rather than serve as an adversary of government, they want to bolster the credibility of those in power. That is a classic case of a certain kind of activism.'' I take his point, with a few caveats. Journalists are responsible for following the truth wherever it may guide them. Both Ms. Gibson and Mr. Greenwald said that they would quickly follow the Snowden story even if it led to something that questioned his motives or diminished his credibility. But I do think that activism -- which is admittedly accompanied by the kind of determination that can prompt discovery -- can also impair vision. If an agenda is in play and momentum is at work, cracks may go unexplored. That is not to say that Mr. Greenwald's work is suspect, only that the tendentiousness of ideology creates its own narrative. He has been everywhere on television taking on his critics, which seems more like a campaign than a discussion of the story he covered. Activists can and often do reveal the truth, but the primary objective remains winning the argument. That includes the argument about whether a reporter has to be politically and ideologically neutral to practice journalism.Representatives of the world's biggest pharmaceutical companies pledged on Wednesday to release detailed data about their drugs to outside researchers, a move that was applauded by some but also seen as an effort to head off more extensive disclosure requirements that are under review in Europe. The announcement, made jointly by the two major pharmaceutical trade groups in the United States and Europe, signals a shift for the industry, which in the past has resisted calls to systematically share its data. The proposal was unanimously approved by member companies and is to take effect on Jan. 1. It would apply to all new drugs and all new uses for existing drugs, whether approved in the United States or the European Union. ''Quite frankly, we recognize that there are a lot of skeptics, but this is the right thing to do and the right time to do it,'' said John J. Castellani, chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, also known as PhRMA, which developed the guidelines with its overseas counterpart, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. Members of the two groups collectively represent about 80 percent of the world's pharmaceutical research, Mr. Castellani said. ''What they are doing would have been thought to be inconceivable even a short time ago,'' said Dr. Harlan M. Krumholz, a cardiologist at Yale who recently oversaw an outside review of a treatment by the device maker Medtronic. ''If these companies truly fulfill these promises, then they will have made an important contribution to science and the common good.'' But he said their efforts would need to be monitored. Proponents say doctors and patients need independent information -- not just that provided by manufacturers -- about the risks and benefits of drugs. But as recently as February, PhRMA issued a statement criticizing proponents of data sharing, saying that releasing what's known as ''patient-level'' clinical data would be irresponsible and encourage second-guessing of regulatory agencies, ''which would be disastrous for patients.'' Both industry groups have opposed a plan by the European Medicines Agency, which oversees approvals in Europe, to make trial data public whenever a drug is approved. A similar effort to require such data disclosure is under way in the European Parliament. On Monday, the British newspaper The Guardian reported on a leaked e-mail that detailed plans by the two trade groups to enlist the help of patient groups to try to kill the efforts in Europe. Mr. Castellani said the plan released Wednesday should be seen as an alternative to the proposals being considered in Europe, which would have fewer restrictions on the data. Drug makers have raised concerns that patient privacy could be compromised if the data were not properly redacted, and that competitors could mine the documents to gain an advantage. Under the industry plan, companies would set up outside panels to consider requests from ''qualified'' researchers for a range of data and dossiers that drug companies keep on their drugs. They would also have to provide plans for how they planned to use the data. Some researchers questioned whether the companies' review boards would be truly independent, and bristled at what they described as restrictive requirements. But Mr. Castellani said such provisions were necessary. ''Putting this out is what we think is a responsible way to meet the researchers' needs,'' he said.E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt  LACEY, N.J. -- Some years ago, Janet Tauro moved to the pine barrens and salt-flecked flats of the Jersey Shore, where she would raise her children. Then she found that Oyster Creek, the nation's oldest nuclear plant, sat on her doorstep. She became a nuclear activist, one of dozens who bird-dog the Oyster Creek plant, and helped persuade Gov. Chris Christie to shutter the place by 2019. But not even the closing notice set her mind at ease. Then Hurricane Sandy blew through, spinning houses off foundations, blowing holes in barrier islands and wrecking lives. In the midst of this mayhem, Oyster Creek sounded a modest alarm. Rising waters in Barnegat Bay threatened to submerge the pumps the plant uses to pull in water to cool its reactor and spent-fuel pools. Had workers with Exelon Corporation, which owns Oyster Creek, been forced to turn off the water-intake pumps, they might have had to dip fire hoses into the floodwaters to refill the ever-hot pool. The plant issued an alert, the second lowest on the four-stage scale established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. At the same time, 39 of 42 warning sirens, which are perched on poles for miles around the plant and intended to warn local residents in event of a nuclear emergency, lost power. Ms. Tauro pulled her coat tight against winter winds as she walked along a bridge within sight of the plant's smokestack; this area, she noted, was underwater on Oct. 29. ''We know what the company will say: this is another 'lesson learned,' '' she said. ''But we've got 3.5 million people in a 50-mile radius of this plant, and it feels like we're sitting ducks.'' In fact, Craig Nesbit, a spokesman for Exelon, said, ''Everything went very well.'' And Gordon K. Hunegs, of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, pointedly added, ''The plant was always safe.'' ''What if'' disaster tales are a risky business; our world is filled with unrealized perils. This is particularly true of nuclear power, as it inflames our imagination and stirs primal fears. Still, the N.R.C.'s conclusion feels too tidy. Oyster Creek is a sometimes troubled nuclear plant. And there is the impression, built up year after empirical year, that the N.R.C. is a tiger denuded of claws. Even the agency's internal monitors found it was notoriously cautious about actions that might cost plants time and money. In 2007, Exelon Corporation ignored corrosion in pipes used to circulate cooling waters in an Illinois plant. A pipe broke. Had the pipe ruptured during an emergency, experts told The New York Times in 2011, there might have been a catastrophe 100 miles west of Chicago. The N.R.C. handed out two low-level reprimands, akin to sending the company to its room without dinner. A couple of years later, Gregory B. Jaczko, a rare activist at the agency, argued that poor management of erosion in the drywall shell of the reactor at Oyster Creek merited closer attention. ''The company's series of errors,'' he wrote, ''provides evidence that directly contradicts Exelon's ability to meet the commitments.'' The majority of the commissioners ignored him. Then there are those broken sirens. Exelon and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission say not to worry; there was a back-up system. That involved sending out local deputy sheriffs in patrol cars with loudspeakers. Wouldn't 85 mile-per-hour winds and washed-out roads prove problematic? ''The state has said it could have carried out that plan,'' an agency spokeswoman replied. Another agency official interjected that the best move during a radiological release was to stay indoors. So mission accomplished, sort of. Let's acknowledge that nuclear power is complicated. Its carbon footprint is minimal. A few prominent environmentalists argue that the rapidly heating world cannot make wrenching changes without nuclear power to ease the transition. Mr. Nesbit of Exelon argues, reasonably, that Oyster Creek had backup for the back-up plans. There were generators, and fire engines on trailers. But experience teaches that problems can become a stumble down a staircase. Great storms blow up the coast with unnerving regularity of late. (While the N.R.C. has required Oyster Creek to thoroughly evaluate its flood plan in three years, it has not required Exelon to look at the effect global warming will have on flood preparation.) ''This was not the big one,'' Ms. Tauro said. ''I get the feeling we're regulating with our fingers crossed.''WHEN Reed Birney's big break finally came, after 30 years as a journeyman actor in New York, he nearly let it pass him by. Like many performers who had seen dream role after dream role go to bigger stars, Mr. Birney had lost faith in himself. Supporting parts and forgettable guests spots on ''Law & Order'' were cold comfort as he watched, at home in pajamas, as former classmates like Sigourney Weaver and Mercedes Ruehl walked Hollywood red carpets. Mr. Birney even started to believe what an anonymous poster once wrote on a blog about his performances in countless nice-guy parts. That he was a lightweight. But then in 2008, at one of their regular coffee-cum-commiseration sessions, the actress Marin Ireland asked Mr. Birney to join her Off Broadway in ''Blasted,'' a British play about lost souls enduring emotional and physical atrocities. The producers initially envisioned Harvey Keitel in the role of Ian, an amoral journalist who abuses Ms. Ireland's character sexually. But she wanted Mr. Birney, given her comfort with him and her belief that he had ''a dark side that he never got to show,'' Ms. Ireland recalled. Later that day, after reading the first few pages of ''Blasted,'' Mr. Birney shot her a text message: ''I CAN'T TAKE MY CLOTHES OFF!'' But soon he said yes, reasoning that he had nothing to lose by testing himself with a character who not only got naked but also raped and maimed before dying miserably. ''At first the idea felt as silly as somebody saying, 'Reed, we want you to play Stanley Kowalski,' '' Mr. Birney said, comparing the introverted characters of his past to the ''Streetcar Named Desire'' brute immortalized by Marlon Brando. ''I realized, after so many awful years in the business, how little I thought of myself as an actor sometimes.'' ''Blasted'' paid $300 a week, played in a 73-seat theater and changed Mr. Birney's life. His acclaimed performance led to important roles in seven other celebrated Off Broadway productions -- and now to his first play on Broadway since his debut there 35 years ago in ''Gemini.'' True to his reputation as a character actor Mr. Birney is returning in the small but key role of a henpecked businessman in the Roundabout Theater Company's revival of ''Picnic,'' William Inge's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama from 1953 about young love and middle-aged desperation in a Kansas town. Mr. Birney's character, Howard Bevans, has no showiness on paper, but actors have made the most of the part: Arthur O'Connell was nominated for a supporting actor Academy Award as Howard in the 1955 film (which starred William Holden and Kim Novak), and Larry Bryggman drew a Tony Award nomination for the previous Broadway revival in 1994. Winning a Tony was a childhood dream of Mr. Birney's ever since he began fantasizing about Broadway from his rural hometown, Seaford, Del. But at 58, after landing his second job on Broadway, he is quick to say that he'd be getting ahead of himself to imagine winning Tonys. ''Right now I just feel like I'm the poster boy for perseverance,'' Mr. Birney said during a recent interview in the shabby-chic living room of his boxy Upper West Side apartment, where the bookcases hold part of his 7,000-film collection and board games like Life and Battleship that he plays with his wife, the actress Constance Shulman, and their two teenagers. ''When I was young and cute, I thought I had to really get rich and famous,'' he continued. ''And I was getting older and my looks were going, and I wasn't getting famous, or even a little bit famous, I thought -- oh dear, what a sad thing. I was just wildly frustrated. I felt like I had something more to give, but no one was buying for the longest time.'' Now, it seems, no one can get enough of Mr. Birney, at least among downtown theater artists, many of whom are half his age. ''Blasted'' hit at the same time that a new crowd of cool kids was emerging Off Broadway, which included the ubiquitous director Sam Gold and his frequent muse, the playwright Annie Baker. The two recruited Mr. Birney and other actors to develop Ms. Baker's play ''Circle Mirror Transformation,'' which became a major critical and audience hit Off Broadway at Playwrights Horizons in 2009. Mr. Birney's character, the heartbroken carpenter Schultz, became his stock in trade: Charles Isherwood began his review in The New York Times of a later production, David West Read's ''Dream of the Burning Boy,'' by writing, ''Reed Birney is quickly becoming New York's foremost actor in a particular subspecialty, communicating the grief of average men facing extraordinary loss.'' (Mr. West Read developed the play with Mr. Birney in mind and said he is writing another one for him.) Ms. Baker and Mr. Gold, meanwhile, who won Obie Awards for ''Circle Mirror,'' were so enamored with Mr. Birney that they decided to create an adaptation of the Chekhov classic ''Uncle Vanya'' for him to play the title role. If commercial Broadway productions are developed around Hollywood stars, an Off Broadway Vanya is tantamount to canonization for a lesser-known actor like Mr. Birney (even if he did earn less than 1 percent of the $120,000-a-week salary Al Pacino is drawing for ''Glengarry Glen Ross'' this season). Asked why Mr. Birney had become one of his go-to actors, Mr. Gold, who is now directing ''Picnic,'' compared him to ''the family member you most want to sit beside at long dinners.'' ''He doesn't hold back, but he doesn't impose, and there's just a ton of soul and history and sadness and character that he brings to the table,'' Mr. Gold said. Mr. Birney has been part of the Off Broadway scene since moving to New York in 1974, after dropping out of Boston University's acting program and enrolling in classes at Circle in the Square Theater School. His first assignment, he recalled, was a scene from ''Picnic,'' playing opposite Susan Newman, a daughter of Paul. They rehearsed in Mr. Newman's Manhattan apartment, a dizzying moment that made Mr. Birney feel that anything was possible. He worked in classes in New York with Ms. Weaver and Ms. Ruehl, among others. He earned his Actors' Equity card within months, faster than many of his peers, by doing children's theater (''a 'Swiss Family Robinson' production set in America -- awful stuff'') and within a couple of years was cast in a new comedy ''Gemini,'' which ran at Playwrights Horizons and Circle Rep before moving to Broadway in 1977 for an unusually long four-year run. Mr. Birney, 22 when the play opened on Broadway, spent two years playing the role of the bland, good-looking friend on whom the main character has a secret crush. For all the good reviews he received Mr. Birney felt out of step with the times when he would audition for his next big role. ''The '70s was the era of DeNiro and Pacino, and no one was really interested in WASP-y actors unless you were Robert Redford,'' Mr. Birney said. ''For a long time I looked like I weighed 10 pounds and was 14 years old, and people thought of me as the callow youth from 'Gemini.' And I guess I wasn't showing them much that was different.'' Two major productions at the Public Theater -- the director Andrei Serban's ''Master and Margarita'' in 1978 and the playwright Harry Kondoleon's ''Zero Positive'' in 1988 -- proved to be anything but the breakouts that Mr. Birney had hoped for. ''Zero Positive'' was especially disastrous: Mr. Birney was fired as the play's leading man after the first week of previews, and several newspaper articles focused on his humiliation. (Films like the 1981 ''Four Friends'' were well received but never gave him a movie career.) Mr. Birney had already quit acting once, for a year in 1986 when he traveled the world; after ''Zero Positive'' he chose to keep auditioning, but he resigned himself for a career far from the spotlight. ''I had decades of despair while I was waiting for something to happen,'' Mr. Birney said. ''There was a lot of crying, and I came to recognize how to play heartbreak and disappointment.'' A small family inheritance helped Mr. Birney get by, and he coped emotionally by developing a deep-seated sense of humility that is still immediately evident. At a recent rehearsal for ''Picnic'' he bent over backward to please Mr. Gold as they painstakingly rehearsed one exchange between Howard and his girlfriend, the desperately needy Rosemary, played by Elizabeth Marvel. At one point Mr. Birney was standing in half-darkness onstage and asked Mr. Gold if he should move, but he quickly added, ''I don't mind being here if you don't mind it.'' A moment later he pressed Mr. Gold on whether the length of a new pause ''should feel like hesitation or a beat -- or whatever you want it to be.'' Ms. Marvel said in an interview that she does not see Mr. Birney as a people pleaser but rather as an actor who prizes collegiality and technical precision. ''Reed and I are at that time in life where you see the end of the pier, and you think this doesn't go on forever, so you focus on doing your utmost with each role you create,'' said Ms. Marvel, 43, who has eight Broadway appearances and four Obies. While Mr. Birney said he is savoring being back on Broadway -- a hope he had given up -- he also copped to occasional flights of fancy nowadays: that he might someday play a leading man there too. Recent Broadway tryouts -- like for the father in ''Billy Elliot'' in 2008 -- didn't pan out. But after his recent successes, is it folly to hope to play James Tyrone Sr. in the next ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' revival? ''Playing middle-aged roles Off Broadway was never what I wanted, but it has given me this wildly unexpected happy life,'' he said. ''And now I believe again that I could play the great roles anywhere. Even Tyrone. Even Broadway.'' Top, Reed Birney in his Upper West Side apartment. From left above, Mr. Birney with Marin Ireland in ''Blasted'' with Deirdre O'Connell, left, and Heidi Schreck in ''Circle Mirror Transformation'' and in ''Uncle Vanya.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES SIMON KANE/SAM RUDY MEDIA RELATIONS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Above, Mr. Birney standing on steps greeting his ''Picnic'' colleague Sebastian Stan, and with Matt Dellapina in ''The Dream of the Burning Boy.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES  SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR6)Rebecca Elizabeth Reed Maret, the daughter of Wallis Reed Maret of Nyack, N.Y., and Allen M. Maret of Bayside, Calif., was married Monday to Varun Sawhney, the son of Poonam Sawhney and Viney Sawhney of Boston. Carolee Kamin, a Universal Life minister, officiated at the Ritz-Carlton Battery Park in New York, with Pandit Madhav Naik, a Hindu priest, taking part. Mrs. Sawhney, 28, is a third-year law student at Boston College. She graduated cum laude from Occidental College and received a master's degree in European studies from the London School of Economics and Political Science. Mr. Sawhney, 30, is the vice president for business development in the New York office of ServiceChannel, a retail-operations technology company. He graduated from George Washington.In a little sushi restaurant in Syracuse, George Saunders conceded that, sure, one reality was that he and I were a couple guys talking fiction and eating avocado salad and listening to Alanis Morissette coming from the speaker above our heads. Another was that we were walking corpses. We'd been on the subject of death for a while. A friend I loved very much died recently, and I was trying to describe the state I sometimes still found myself in -- not quite of this world, but each day a little less removed -- and how I knew it was a good thing, the re-entry, but I regretted it too, because it meant the dimming of a kind of awareness that doesn't get lit up very much. I was having some trouble articulating it, but Saunders was right there, leaning in and encouraging. He has a bushy blond mustache and goatee going gray, and sometimes, when he's listening intently, he can look a little stern, as if he just stepped out of a tent at Antietam. But then he starts talking and the eyebrows go up and it's all Chicago vowels and twinkly Doug Henning eyes, and if you didn't know that he was more or less universally regarded as a genius, you might peg him as the superfriendly host of a woodworking show on daytime public access. ''It would be so interesting if we could stay like that,'' Saunders said, meaning: if we could conduct our lives with the kind of openness that sometimes comes with proximity to death. He described a flight from Chicago to Syracuse that he was on a little over 10 years ago. ''We were flying along, and I've got a guilty pleasure -- I'm reading Vanity Fair -- and I'm on my way home. And suddenly there's this crazy sound, like a minivan hit the side of the plane. And I thought, Uh, oh, I'm not even gonna look up. If I don't look up from the magazine, it's not happening. And then it happened again.'' Everyone starts screaming, the plane is making terrible metal-in-distress sounds. Black smoke -- ''black like in a Batman movie'' -- starts streaming out of the fresh-air nozzles overhead. They turn back toward O'Hare, ''and there's that grid of Chicago, and I'm seeing it coming up really fast.'' The lights flicker, and the pilot comes on and tells everyone, with panic in his voice, to stay buckled. ''And there's this little 14-year-old boy next to me. He turns to me and says, 'Sir, is this supposed to be happening?' ''And I remember thinking, No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Just that one syllable, over and over. And also thinking, You could actually piss yourself. And the strongest thing was the sense of that seat right there.'' He pointed toward the imaginary seat back in front of him. ''I thought, Oh, yeah, this body. I've had it all this time, and that's what's going to do it. That right there.'' He had assumed that if he was ever faced with death, he would ''handle it with aplomb,'' he would be present in the moment, he would make peace in the time he had left. ''But I couldn't even remember my own name,'' he said. ''I was so completely not present. I was just the word no.'' Eventually he managed to turn to the kid next to him and say that it was going to be O.K., ''though I didn't think so. And there was a woman across the aisle. And finally -- it was like coming out of a deep freeze -- I could just reach over, and I took her hand.'' That's how they remained for the next several minutes, waiting to die. In the end, they didn't crash into the Chicago streets or plunge into the freezing lake but made it safely to the runway, where all the emergency-response equipment was in place but not needed. It turned out, in a detail that could have been lifted from a George Saunders story, they all nearly died because the plane had flown into a flock of geese. ''For three or four days after that,'' he said, ''it was the most beautiful world. To have gotten back in it, you know? And I thought, If you could walk around like that all the time, to really have that awareness that it's actually going to end. That's the trick.'' You could call this desire -- to really have that awareness, to be as open as possible, all the time, to beauty and cruelty and stupid human fallibility and unexpected grace -- the George Saunders Experiment. It's the trope of all tropes to say that a writer is ''the writer for our time.'' Still, if we were to define ''our time'' as a historical moment in which the country we live in is dropping bombs on people about whose lives we have the most abstracted and unnuanced ideas, and who have the most distorted notions of ours; or a time in which some of us are desperate simply for a job that would lead to the ability to purchase a few things that would make our kids happy and result in an uptick in self- and family esteem; or even just a time when a portion of the population occasionally feels scared out of its wits for reasons that are hard to name, or overcome with emotion when we see our children asleep, or happy when we risk revealing ourselves to someone and they respond with kindness -- if we define ''our time'' in these ways, then George Saunders is the writer for our time. This week, Saunders's fourth book of stories, ''Tenth of December,'' will be published by Random House. He is 54 years old and published his first book, ''CivilWarLand in Bad Decline,'' in 1996, when he was 37. Since then there have been two other collections, ''Pastoralia'' and ''In Persuasion Nation''; a novella, ''The Brief and Frightening Reign of Phil''; a children's book, ''The Very Persistent Gappers of Frip''; and a collection of reported nonfiction, essays and short humor pieces called ''The Braindead Megaphone.'' When ''CivilWarLand'' first came out, there was a lot of talk about Saunders as a new, savage, satirical voice bursting onto the scene, though he'd been publishing the stories one at a time over eight years, writing them while making a living at a day job preparing technical reports for a company called the Radian Corporation, in Rochester. His stories are set in what might be described as a just slightly futuristic America or, maybe better, present-day America, where, because of the exigencies of capitalism, things have gotten a little weird. These initial stories often take place in theme parks gone to seed or soul-withering exurban office strips, but the stories themselves are overflowing with vitality; they are sometimes very dark but they are also very, very funny. The characters speak in a strange new language -- a kind of heightened bureaucratese, or a passively received vernacular that is built around self-improvement clichés (''It made me livid and twice that night I had to step into a closet and perform my Hatred Abatement Breathing'') -- and this lends them the feeling of allegory, though they are something else too, that's harder to place. The book was published right around the same time as David Foster Wallace's ''Infinite Jest,'' and it felt back then as if those two writers (and a handful of others) were busy establishing the new terms for contemporary American fiction. I remember Wallace coming into the offices of Harper's Magazine, where I worked at the time, just before or after the book party for ''Infinite Jest'' (which has maybe gotten more attention than any book party in memory, with the descriptions of Wallace hiding in an upstairs room, away from the hundreds of people there to celebrate or be close to his genius). It's hard to know now if Wallace actually looked spooked or if I'm projecting that look back onto him, but I do clearly recall him standing in the hall in his untied high-tops, saying that George Saunders was the most exciting writer in America. That kind of thing has been said a lot about Saunders since then. For people who pay close attention to the state of American fiction, he has become a kind of superhero. His stories now appear regularly in The New Yorker, he has been anthologized all over the place, and he has won a bunch of awards, among them a ''genius grant'' in 2006 from the MacArthur Foundation, which described him as a ''highly imaginative author [who] continues to influence a generation of young writers and brings to contemporary American fiction a sense of humor, pathos and literary style all his own.'' As Joshua Ferris recently wrote in an introduction for the reissue last fall, in e-book form, of ''CivilWarLand'': ''Part of the reason it's so hard to talk about him is the shared acknowledgment among writers that Saunders is somehow a little more than just a writer. . . . [He] writes like something of a saint. He seems in touch with some better being.'' It is true that if there exists a ''writer's writer,'' Saunders is the guy. ''There is really no one like him,'' Lorrie Moore wrote. ''He is an original -- but everyone knows that.'' Tobias Wolff, who taught Saunders when he was in the graduate writing program at Syracuse in the mid-'80s, said, ''He's been one of the luminous spots of our literature for the past 20 years,'' and then added what may be the most elegant compliment I've ever heard paid to another person: ''He's such a generous spirit, you'd be embarrassed to behave in a small way around him.'' And Mary Karr, who has been a colleague of Saunders's at Syracuse since he joined the faculty in the mid-'90s (and who also, incidentally, is a practicing Catholic with a wonderful singing voice and a spectacularly inventive foul mouth), told me, ''I think he's the best short-story writer in English alive.'' Aside from all the formal invention and satirical energy of Saunders's fiction, the main thing about it, which tends not to get its due, is how much it makes you feel. I've loved Saunders's work for years and spent a lot of hours with him over the past few months trying to understand how he's able to do what he does, but it has been a real struggle to find an accurate way to express my emotional response to his stories. One thing is that you read them and you feel known, if that makes any sense. Or, possibly even woollier, you feel as if he understands humanity in a way that no one else quite does, and you're comforted by it. Even if that comfort often comes in very strange packages, like say, a story in which a once-chaste aunt comes back from the dead to encourage her nephew, who works at a male-stripper restaurant (sort of like Hooters, except with guys, and sleazier), to start unzipping and showing his wares to the patrons, so he can make extra tips and help his family avert a tragic future that she has foretold. Junot Díaz described the Saunders's effect to me this way: ''There's no one who has a better eye for the absurd and dehumanizing parameters of our current culture of capital. But then the other side is how the cool rigor of his fiction is counterbalanced by this enormous compassion. Just how capacious his moral vision is sometimes gets lost, because few people cut as hard or deep as Saunders does.'' And ''Tenth of December'' is more moving and emotionally accessible than anything that has come before. ''I want to be more expansive,'' Saunders said. ''If there are 10 readers out there, let's assume I'm never going to reach two of them. They'll never be interested. And let's say I've already got three of them, maybe four. If there's something in my work that's making numbers five, six and seven turn off to it, I'd like to figure out what that is. I can't change who I am and what I do, but maybe there's a way to reach those good and dedicated readers that the first few books might not have appealed to. I'd like to make a basket big enough that it included them.'' There are stories in this new book that are recognizably Saundersian: one that's largely told in fake chivalric speech, for example, and another, the most purely satirical in the book, in the form of a memorandum from ''Todd Birnie, Divisional Director'' RE: ''March Performance Stats.'' (What Todd is the divisional director of is never explicitly stated, but as the story progresses, it becomes clear that the euphemisms his memo is constructed of mask something horribly dark.) But several of the new stories stake out emotional territory Saunders has never quite ventured into before, at least not this deeply. The title story, for instance, is about the intersecting, on a winter day, of the lives of a boy whose physical description says everything about his social status -- ''a pale boy with unfortunate Prince Valiant bangs and cublike mannerisms'' -- and a man dying of cancer, who has decided to kill himself by going to the park and taking off his clothes and freezing to death, thus sparing his family the suffering and raging and degradation that's sure to come. ''If death is in the room, it's pretty interesting,'' Saunders said, meaning that any story circling around the idea of death is going to be charged. ''But I would also say that I'm interested in getting myself to believe that it's going to happen to me. I'm interested in it, because if you're not, you're nuts. It's really de facto what we're here to find out about. I hate the thought of messing around and then being like, 'Oh, I've got pancreatic cancer.' It's terrifying. It's terrifying to even think of. But to me, it's what you should be thinking about all the time. As a fiction writer, the trick is how to be thinking about it in a way that makes it substantial. You want it to matter when you do induce it.'' I asked him about the occasional dramatization in his stories of the moments after death, the way characters' lives are sometimes suddenly reframed and redeemed. ''In terms of dramatic structure, I don't really buy the humanist verities anymore,'' he said. ''I mean, I buy them, they're a subset of what's true. But they're not sufficient. They wouldn't do much for me on my deathbed. Look at it another way. We're here. We're nice guys. We're doing O.K. But we know that in X number of years, we won't be here, and between now and then something unpleasant is gonna happen, or at least potentially unpleasant and scary. And when we turn to try and understand that, I don't really think the humanist verities are quite enough. Because that would be crazy if they were. It would be so weird if we knew just as much as we needed to know to answer all the questions of the universe. Wouldn't that be freaky? Whereas the probability is high that there is a vast reality that we have no way to perceive, that's actually bearing down on us now and influencing everything. The idea of saying, 'Well, we can't see it, therefore we don't need to see it,' seems really weird to me.'' Saunders has taught in the graduate writing program at Syracuse for 16 years. I spent a couple of days sitting in on his classes, a small five-student workshop and a ''forms'' class, which on the day I was there was focused on the nature of revision; specifically, on a handful of Raymond Carver stories and the fraught relationship between Carver and his editor, Gordon Lish. The students seemed really sharp, and Saunders is clearly committed to them. ''With this caliber of student, you have to be really honest,'' he told me. ''It keeps you looking at your own process, so you don't import any nonsense.'' In an interview several years ago with Ben Marcus for The Believer, Saunders defended the time spent in an M.F.A. program by saying, ''The chances of a person breaking through their own habits and sloth and limited mind to actually write something that gets out there and matters to people are slim.'' But it's a mistake, he added, to think of writing programs in terms that are ''too narrowly careerist. . . . Even for those thousands of young people who don't get something out there, the process is still a noble one -- the process of trying to say something, of working through craft issues and the worldview issues and the ego issues -- all of this is character-building, and, God forbid, everything we do should have concrete career results. I've seen time and time again the way that the process of trying to say something dignifies and improves a person.'' After finishing up with his student conferences, Saunders gave me a quick literary tour of Syracuse -- Toni Morrison's old neighborhood; Tobias Wolff's house (where Saunders and his wife, Paula, and their daughters lived after Wolff left Syracuse to teach at Stanford); the little place where a sober Raymond Carver made his life with the poet Tess Gallagher. We drove to the end of a block and Saunders pointed out a run-down house with a basement apartment that had a couple of small, dark windows and a broken concrete patio. It was a grim-looking spot. ''That's where Dave wrote 'Infinite Jest,' '' he said. ''There should be a plaque there.'' He and Paula now live just outside of Oneonta, N.Y., two hours southeast of Syracuse. Their house sits on 15 acres, up a hill at the end of a rocky drive. It's a beautiful place. There's a koi pond and, because they devote a significant part of their lives to the practice of Nyingma Buddhism, there are statues of the Buddha here and there and colored prayer flags strung in the woods. Saunders writes in a shed across the driveway from his house, where we sat for a couple hours one morning while his two yellow labs nosed around outside the door. There's the desk and a sofa and a table stacked with books that he has been researching for his next project. On the shelves there are pictures of him and Paula and the girls and a great one from his jazz-fusion days of him playing a Fender Telecaster, with white-blond Johnny Winter hair to his shoulders. ''In our lives, we're many people,'' he said as he lifted the photo off the shelf. We talked for a while about his relationship to Wallace. For all the ways in which their fiction might seem to be working similar themes, they were, Saunders said, ''like two teams of miners, digging at the same spot but from different directions.'' He described making trips to New York in the early days and having ''three or four really intense afternoons and evenings'' with, on separate occasions, Wallace and Franzen and Ben Marcus, talking to each of them about what ''the ultimate aspiration for fiction was.'' Saunders added: ''The thing on the table was emotional fiction. How do we make it? How do we get there? Is there something yet to be discovered? These were about the possibly contrasting desire to: (1) write stories that had some sort of moral heft and/or were not just technical exercises or cerebral games; while (2) not being cheesy or sentimental or reactionary.'' ''Those guys came from a much better trained place,'' he said. ''They had a very strong and passionate involvement with postmodernism when it was still hot off the griddle.'' Whereas, for him the question wasn't how to move beyond the postmodern fathers who shaped current American literary sensibility; it was how ''to mimic the emotional conditions of my actual working life'' -- how to, as he later put it, arrive at a voice that was informed by ''the mild ass-kickings'' he suffered or witnessed in his adult life ''that had the effect of politicizing and tenderizing me.'' His dad owned a pizza restaurant in Amarillo, Tex., after having run a couple of places in Chicago called Chicken Unlimited. While Saunders was in college, studying geophysical engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, the restaurant burned down. Because of a quirk in the insurance coverage, his family lost the restaurant. Soon afterward the family moved from Amarillo to New Mexico, where his father set up a support facility engaged with CO2-recovery stations for oil rigs. ''I remember it being 20 below outside, and the pipes in our mobile home froze,'' Saunders said, ''and my dad was out there in just a Windbreaker with a blow torch, trying to unfreeze them.'' After he graduated from the School of Mines, Saunders went to work for an oil-exploration company in the jungles of Sumatra. ''I was trained in seismic prospecting,'' he said. ''We'd drill a deep hole and put dynamite in the bottom and blow it up remotely, which would give you a cross-sectional picture of the subsurface, which tells you where to drill.'' They worked four weeks on and two weeks off and in the down time would be shuttled in helicopters to the nearest city, 40 minutes away, and then from there fly to Singapore. ''I'd been kind of an Ayn Rand guy before that,'' he said. ''And then you go to Asia and you see people who are genuinely poor and genuinely suffering and hadn't gotten there by whining.'' While on a break in Singapore, walking back to his hotel in the middle of the night, he stopped by an excavation site and ''saw these shadows scuttling around in the hole. And then I realized the shadows were old women, working the night shift. Oh, I thought, Ayn Rand doesn't quite account for this.'' Whenever he was on leave, he would stock up on weeks worth of books to read. ''This was serious business,'' he wrote in an essay called ''Mr. Vonnegut in Sumatra,'' which appears in ''The Braindead Megaphone.'' ''If the books ran out before the four weeks did, I would be reduced to reading the same 1979 Playboy over and over, and/or watching hours of wayang theater on the bunkhouse television.'' On one of those trips, Saunders picked up ''Slaughterhouse-Five,'' though at that point in his life he had ''read virtually nothing'' and didn't really know what to make of it, as it didn't conform to his sense at the time that ''great writing was hard reading.'' Eventually he got sick from swimming in a river infested with monkey feces and came home. He spent the next two years, as he put it, ''trying to be ecstatic like Kerouac and 'understand America.' '' There was a woman in Chicago he had been crazy about but always felt was out of his reach, but now, having traveled in Asia and returned and being on the verge of living the life of the writer, ''whatever my immature and arrogant idea of that was, I went to her and said, 'Stick with me.' '' They moved to L.A., ''me and this girl I was supposed to be showing the world to, and I couldn't find work,'' Saunders said. ''We were at the bottom.'' So they fled Los Angeles and went back to Chicago, where Saunders lived in his aunt's basement and got a job working as a roofer. He wrote a remarkable essay about that time and the end of that relationship, ''Chicago Christmas, 1984,'' years ago for The New Yorker. ''Finally, in terms of money, I got it,'' he wrote. ''Money forestalled disgrace.'' In 1985, Saunders was accepted into the graduate writing program at Syracuse based on a story of his called ''A Lack of Order in the Floating Object Room.'' ''It was wild, it was funny,'' he said. ''But I repented of it. It was modern, and I wanted to be in 1932. I wanted to be Hemingway.'' In his author's note for the reissue of ''CivilWarLand,'' he writes: ''If I got tired of [Hemingway], I did a Carver imitation, then a Babel imitation. Sometimes I did Babel, if Babel lived in Texas. Sometimes I did Carver, if Carver had worked (as I had) in the oil fields of Sumatra. Sometimes I did Hemingway, if Hemingway had lived in Syracuse, which, to me, sounded like Carver.'' He met Paula, who was also in the writing program, shortly after he arrived in Syracuse. They were engaged after three weeks and Paula became pregnant seven months later, on their honeymoon. ''We went from being young Carver-acolyte beatniks to Ozzie and Harriet in what felt like a week,'' he said. ''Well, Ozzie and Harriet if they were broke.'' In 1989, when their daughter Caitlin was 1, they moved to Rochester so Saunders could work as a technical writer for the Radian Corporation. Their second daughter, Alena, was born a year later. With both daughters, Paula went into labor at five months and had to go on complete bed rest. At one point their car broke down, and Saunders biked back and forth to work along the Erie Canal in a cold-weather moon suit cobbled together from ''a set of lab goggles, a rain poncho, some high rubber boots that I seem to remember had little spacemen on them.'' If it's possible to locate the exact moment when George Saunders became George Saunders, it's right around here. ''I was so terrified by that L.A. experience,'' he said, ''I couldn't imagine getting to that place with Paula and the girls. So I took the Radian job, and it was a very liberating thing. If I can provide for them, then in my writing time I can be as wild as I want. Having felt that abyss, I basically said, 'O.K., capitalism, I have seen your gaping maw, and I want no trouble with you.' '' For the last couple of years he'd been working on what he described as a ''disastrous novel'' -- ''La Boda de Eduardo'' -- but he realized, with the force of epiphany, that the attempts to graft his life experience onto a Hemingway-Carver framework were foolish. There was an experience he was living that hadn't adequately been represented in fiction yet. Not a Kafkaesque existential deadness, but something else, something that captured ''not the endless cycle of meaningless activity but the endless cycle of meaningful activity.'' ''I saw the peculiar way America creeps up on you if you don't have anything,'' he told me. ''It's never rude. It's just, Yes, you do have to work 14 hours. And yes, you do have to ride the bus home. You're now the father of two and you will work in that cubicle or you will be dishonored. Suddenly the universe was laden with moral import, and I could intensely feel the limits of my own power. We didn't have the money, and I could see that in order for me to get this much money, I would have to work for this many more years. It was all laid out in front of me, and suddenly absurdism wasn't an intellectual abstraction, it was actually realism. You could see the way that wealth was begetting wealth, wealth was begetting comfort -- and that the cumulative effect of an absence of wealth was the erosion of grace.'' The lesson he learned was the thing he sensed all those years ago in Sumatra, reading but not fully grasping Vonnegut. ''I began to understand art as a kind of black box the reader enters,'' Saunders wrote in an essay on Vonnegut. ''He enters in one state of mind and exits in another. The writer gets no points just because what's inside the box bears some linear resemblance to 'real life' -- he can put whatever he wants in there. What's important is that something undeniable and nontrivial happens to the reader between entry and exit. . . . In fact, 'Slaughterhouse-Five' seemed to be saying that our most profound experiences may require this artistic uncoupling from the actual. The black box is meant to change us. If the change will be greater via the use of invented, absurd material, so be it.'' There's a story in the new book called ''The Semplica Girl Diaries'' that took him more than a dozen years to write. It's narrated in a series of journal entries by a man who has just turned 40 and is struggling to erect what paltry defenses he can against the shame of not providing more for his family. (From one entry, which struck me, caught as I tend to be in a web of financial neuroses and class anxiety, as chest-achingly true: ''Stood looking up at house, sad. Thought: Why sad? Don't be sad. If sad, will make everyone sad. . . . Have to do better! Be kinder. Start now. Soon they will be grown and how sad, if only memory of you is testy stressed guy in bad car.'') The Semplica Girls of the title are women from various third-world countries (Moldova, Somalia, Laos, etc.) who have applied to come to America and get paid to decorate the lawns of the wealthy, by being strung aloft, in flowing white gowns, on a microline that runs through their brains. Through them -- through the acquisition of them -- the narrator hopes to elevate his family's status and bring his kids joy. It's one of a handful of Saunders's stories that originated in a dream. ''I went to a window that didn't exist in our house, and I looked into the yard, and I saw a row of what I understood in the dream logic to be third-world women who had a wire through their heads,'' he said. ''Instead of horror, my reaction was like, 'Yeah, we did it.' Just like if you'd gotten a new car or a kid into school or something, that feeling of, I've come such a long way, I'm able to give these things to my family. And there was a sense that there was an alleviated shame.'' ''Semplica Girls'' is a perfect illustration of the point where Saunders the technically experimental wizard and Saunders the guy whose heart exists outside of his body converge. It's science fiction of the highest order. The unreality has been rendered on the page in completely convincing and compelling detail, but it's also a story about domestic yearning, and a story about oppression and injustice and the complicated ripple effects of global capitalism. In an interview on The New Yorker's Web site with Deborah Treisman, his editor there, Saunders explained the challenge of the story this way: ''Early on, a story's meaning and rationale seem pretty obvious, but then, as I write it, I realize that I know the meaning/rationale too well, which means that the reader will also know it -- and so things have to be ramped up. . . . These sorts of thematic challenges are, for me, anyway, only answerable via the line-by-line progress through the story. Trying to figure out what happens next, and in what language. So, in this case, I just started out by trying to get the guy to that window, in his underwear, having that same feeling.'' In another story ''Escape From Spiderhead,'' the narrator is being held in a prison-research facility where he and the other inmates are being used as human guinea pigs to test the effects of new drugs. The pharmaceutical names are pure Saunders: Verbaluce, for eloquence of thought and speech; Vivistif, for what you would imagine; and Darkenfloxx. ''Imagine the worst you have ever felt, times 10. That does not even come close to how bad you feel on Darkenfloxx.'' The story is concerned with the question of suicide and the struggle to get free of your own mind. I mentioned to Saunders that it reminded me of David Foster Wallace, and he said that he wasn't consciously writing about Wallace, but he was thinking about him a lot during the writing of that story and others in the new book. '' 'Tenth of December' has the same overtones,'' he said. ''But if you notice it'' -- meaning, if you find yourself making a comment about suicide -- ''you run away from it and just focus on inhabiting the story and the character as intensely as you can. ''I admired him so much,'' he said about Wallace. ''His on-the-spot capabilities were just incredible. And I thought, Yeah, we're a lot alike. We're similar, nervous guys. And then when he died, I thought [of myself], Wait a minute, you're not like that. You don't have chronic, killing depression. I'm sad sometimes, but I'm not depressed. And I also have a mawkish, natural enthusiasm for things. I like being alive in a way that's a little bit cheerleaderish, and I always felt that around Dave. When he died, I saw how unnegotiable it was, that kind of depression. And it led to my being a little more honest about one's natural disposition. If you have a negative tendency and you deny it, then you've doubled it. If you have a negative tendency and you look at it'' -- which is, in part, what the process of writing allows -- ''then the possibility exists that you can convert it.'' The last time we met, Saunders waited in the cold with me until the bus for New York came along. We were talking about the idea of abiding, of the way that you can help people flourish just by withholding judgment, if you open yourself up to their possibilities, as Saunders put it, just as you would open yourself up to a story's possibilities. We said goodbye, and I got on the bus. It was dark now, and you couldn't really see the other passengers. I had ''The Braindead Megaphone'' with me, and I turned on my little light and reread a story he did several years ago for GQ, about traveling to Dubai. ''In all things,'' he wrote, ''we are the victims of The Misconception From Afar. . . . The universal human laws -- need, love for the beloved, fear, hunger, periodic exaltation, the kindness that rises up naturally in the absence of fear/hunger/pain -- are constant, predictable. . . . What a powerful thing to know: that one's own desires are mappable onto strangers.'' At the risk of hyperbole at the end of a story that began in a state of fairly high exaltation, I would say that this is precisely the effect that Saunders's fiction has on you. It ''softens the borders,'' as he put it in one of our conversations. ''Between you and me, between me and me, between the reader and the writer.'' It makes you wiser, better, more disciplined in your openness to the experience of other people. The guy talking on the bus about how his girlfriend doesn't appreciate his music and why couldn't she just cut him that much slack, seeing how he just did all that time? The couple in the basement of the Port Authority, the wife helping her husband get into his Grover costume before he stepped out onto 42nd Street. The woman, one recent morning, who screamed at panhandlers on the subway that it was the day after Christmas and why couldn't they just give us all some peace? ''Peace on Earth,'' she hollered. ''Is that so much to ask for? Get off the train.'' She went on for a while, and some other passengers started to turn on her. ''I'm right!'' she yelled. ''I'm right.'' And then her face took on the saddest expression. It's hard to maintain, the softness. It's an effort. That Dubai story ends with these lines, wisdom imparted from Saunders to himself: ''Don't be afraid to be confused. Try to remain permanently confused. Anything is possible. Stay open, forever, so open it hurts, and then open up some more, until the day you die, world without end, amen.''SHAPIRO--Denise L. (Cohen) 58, of NYC and Millbrook, NY. The world shines less bright tonight due to her tragic and sudden passing on December 29, 2012, in Telluride, CO. Denise lived each day to the fullest. Her style, flair and joie de vivre was infectious; her creativity, intelligence, mentoring, loyalty and love seemed limitless. Denise's career spanned several industries including Fashion, Media/Entertainment, Technology and Consulting. Most recently she served as Lead Client Service Director, Deloitte LLP. Denise started her career in fashion working at Halston Couture and then served as Associate Director ABC Merchandising Inc.; Founder/Principal of Preferred Licenses LTD; Vice President/General Manager of ITT Corporation; Vice President, Potomac/Newslink; Viacom Inc. - Vice President/General Manager, Consumer Products, Nickelodeon; Corporate Development, Office of the General Council, Comedy Central; Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Development, Hallmark Entertainment; Founder/Principal, eWORKS "Boutique" Investment Bank Partnership; Managing Director, Entertainment & Media, Director Client Services, US, PWC. Denise served on the Board of FindSVP/Guidelines, Women Corporate Directors (WCD) and the National Mentoring Partnership, impacting thousands of students. She graduated from Syracuse University (BA/BS) and New York University (MFA/MBA) with honors. Denise loved equestrian sports, tennis, gardening, creating and discovering epicurean delights, music of all genres and literature. But most of all Denise loved and was loved by her surviving husband Lawrence Mark, son Reed Lang, mother Sylvia Cohen of NYC (and pre-deceased Arthur, of Flemington, NJ), pre-deceased in-laws Robert and Barbara Shapiro, of Woodbury, NY, sister Ann (and Stephen) Sherman and sister-in-law Robin (pre-deceased Lawrence) Cohen, of Needham, MA, sisters-in-law Judith (and pre-deceased Phillip) Stacey, of South Hero, VT and Marjorie (and Mitchel) Nesenoff, of Dix Hills, NY, nieces, nephews, grand nephews, cousins and dear friends. A memorial service will be held on January 11, 2013, 11:30am, at Temple Emanuel, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street, NYC. In lieu of flowers, please send a contribution to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF), or the Tick-Borne Disease Alliance (TBDA).8:39 p.m. | Updated Jason Kilar, the Web wizard who turned Hulu from a punch line into a popular source of online video, said on Friday that he would step down as the site's founding chief executive in the next three months. The announcement is certain to turn up the volume on something that's a constant hum in the media industry: speculation about the future of Hulu - and if it has one at all. Its owners, the Walt Disney Company, Comcast and the News Corporation, also run the ABC, Fox and NBC networks, and they do not agree about what to do with the Web site. Perversely, the more popular Hulu becomes, the more of a problem it is for the owners, since it may be taking viewers and advertising dollars away from their core television businesses. Mr. Kilar never saw it that way, however. He was Hulu's best advocate, sometimes clashing with the network executives on Hulu's board and arguing that they had to keep investing in the site, since television's future will surely involve Internet distribution. For many Americans, that future is already here: Hulu's streams of TV shows attract 30 million unique visitors a month via computers and untold millions more via tablets and Internet-connected television sets. Three million pay for Hulu Plus, its subscription arm - not bad for a start-up once ridiculed as "ClownCo." Mr. Kilar declined an interview request on Friday. In an e-mail message to employees, he gave no indication why he was moving on or what he might do next. "My decision to depart has been one of the toughest I've ever made," he said. He said his departure would take effect within the first quarter of the year. No successor was named. Rich Tom, the site's chief technology officer, will also depart in the first quarter. Mr. Kilar, a former executive at Amazon, has in the past been mentioned for a number of prominent jobs in Silicon Valley. He was a top candidate last year for the chief executive position at Yahoo, but Hulu said he declined to be considered. The job later went to Marissa Mayer, a longtime Google employee. His departure comes just several months after the only independent owner of Hulu, Providence Equity Partners, sold its 10 percent stake, originally bought for $100 million, for $200 million. Mr. Kilar and other employees also sold their stakes in the company at that time, netting Mr. Kilar about $40 million, according to an executive with knowledge of the transaction. On Friday, there was widespread praise for Mr. Kilar for steering Hulu through sometimes turbulent seas. "He defied enormous odds, built from scratch one of the top five digital video brands, created two viable and growing businesses (free and pay) and got his well-deserved payday - not bad for five years' work," J. B. Perrette, who used to help oversee NBC's investment in Hulu and now runs Discovery Communication's digital operations, said in an e-mail. That said, Mr. Kilar's announcement did not entirely surprise many in the industry. During his tenure, he sometimes clashed with the owners on Hulu, exemplifying the divide between new, disruptive modes of distribution like the Internet and the more traditional operations at major media companies. As the parent companies pulled back on the amount of ABC, Fox and NBC programming provided to Hulu, the Web site invested in original content to fill the gaps and attract attention. That investment effort continues, led by one of Mr. Kilar's deputies, Andy Forssell, but many in the industry say they believe that Hulu's future remains fuzzy. An internal memo obtained by Variety in August showed that the owners may want to change their agreements with Hulu so that it is no longer the exclusive distributor of repeats of television shows like "The Office" and "Family Guy." That way, the owners could also sell repeat rights to online video services like YouTube, Netflix or Amazon. Some of the owners also wanted more advertisements on the site, which had revenue of about $700 million last year but is not yet believed to be profitable. Much of the revenue came from Hulu Plus, and therein lies another fault line: the owners may concentrate on the paid part to the detriment of the free streaming part. The owners had no comment about any of that on Friday, though. Robert Iger, Disney's chief executive, called Mr. Kilar an integral part of the Hulu story and said in a statement, "We are proud of his achievements, we appreciate what he's built, and we share his confidence in his team's ability to drive Hulu forward from here." This month, Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research, predicted that News Corporation would seek to acquire its competitors' stakes in Hulu in 2013. Comcast, he said, has no managerial control of Hulu and Disney "appears increasingly less interested" in the site. In August, News Corporation said that Jonathan Miller, the company's chief digital officer since 2009 and a vocal champion of Hulu, would leave the company. Mr. Miller represented News Corporation on the Hulu board and had helped the media company broker a stake in Roku. And Chase Carey, the No. 2 to the chief executive of News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch, is said to be less enamored with the service. News Corporation has had some high-stakes stumbles in technology with both Myspace and its tablet-only publication, The Daily, which has led some analysts to expect the company to tread cautiously with future digital investments like Hulu. Mr. Murdoch, however, praised Mr. Kilar for "building Hulu into one of the leading online video services available today." He added, "It's incredibly well positioned for the road ahead." This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.In three decades of drilling, John C. Holko said, his oil and gas business has never faced such a hostile environment. Years after he negotiated leases for gas drilling in upstate New York, strict rules on hydraulic fracturing that state environmental officials proposed threaten to put 20 percent of that land off limits, he estimated. And local drilling bans adopted by town boards could put him out of business altogether, he said. ''Why should I put money in the ground if any one of the towns can say no at the next town meeting?'' said Mr. Holko, the president of Lenape Resources in western New York. ''The issue of home rule is the demise of the industry.'' In November, he sued the State Department of Environmental Conservation and Avon, N.Y., in Livingston County, seeking $50 million in damages for lost business since the town enacted a ban on all drilling last summer. By late February, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, is expected to make a decision on whether hydraulic fracturing, a controversial natural gas drilling process that is already under way from Pennsylvania to Texas to North Dakota, will be allowed in New York. Any decision will be made against a backdrop of ferocious opposition from environmental groups, which say the drilling process -- also known as fracking -- poses too high a risk of groundwater contamination, air pollution and other environmental problems. But a mix of local drilling bans and some of the tightest drilling regulations in the country raise questions about whether the process could flourish here. Beyond those constraints, natural gas prices have declined sharply in recent years, limiting potential profits even as technology opens the way for the exploitation of vast shale gas resources. Fracking involves pumping millions of gallons of water and chemicals into underground shale to release natural gas. Gas companies have a long history of conventional drilling in New York, and if prices rise from their current lows and there is money to be made, there is no question that gas companies will want to do business in the state, industry officials say. ''Certainly there are companies that, once they get a green light, will come in and drill,'' said Brad Gill, executive director of the Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York, which represents 400 drillers and drilling-related businesses. But he and others in the industry argue that New York's proposed rules, which are undergoing public comment until next Friday, would significantly limit opportunities for both companies and the upstate communities that hope for a surge in drilling jobs and an economic boom. Mr. Gill contends that the drawn-out nature of state deliberations on whether to allow fracking -- the process has been under way for four years -- has allowed many land leases to expire and prompted some companies to walk away and focus their resources on drilling in other states. Companies like Talisman Energy and Inflection Energy, which have drilled with conventional methods in New York and had hoped to expand into hydraulic fracturing, have moved operations to Pennsylvania, Mr. Gill said. Another company based in New York, Norse Energy, filed for bankruptcy in early December. Gas industry officials contend that the proposed regulations would block access to up to half the land they might have drilled -- by mandating setbacks, for example, or by prohibiting drilling through aquifers, in grasslands or near streams, private water wells and water supplies used for crops and livestock. (This is in addition to outright bans in the New York City watershed in the Catskills and other sensitive areas.) Meanwhile, Governor Cuomo has said that towns and cities should have a say in a decision about allow drilling within their boundaries, which companies say raises far too much uncertainty for their business. So far, two of the bans have withstood court challenges. In a Nov. 19 letter to Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Gill said that his own trade group had lost at least 10 member companies to other states in the last year and that he could not overstate ''the dramatic unattractiveness of New York to our industry.'' Tom S. West, an industry lawyer in Albany, said the proposed rules would add anywhere from $500,000 to more than $1 million more per well in extra fees and planning costs. But in documents, officials with the State Department of Environmental Conservation have deemed some of the industry's cost estimates ''excessive.'' They predict that fracking in New York would be undertaken by large multinational companies that could afford the costs of drilling in the state. Studies commissioned by the state project that the drilling process in New York could create 17,600 construction jobs and more than 29,000 indirect jobs. Under a conservative chain of events, state officials say, more than 42,000 horizontal and vertical wells would be developed over 30 years. Michael A. Levi, an expert on energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said too many variables were at work for anyone to predict how many companies would invest in fracking in the state, and how quickly, should the state give the go-ahead. Companies with leases and other investments in New York will be more likely to drill than companies that are doing business elsewhere and prefer to wait and see what the first wells drilled in New York yield, he said. ''It'll vary from company to company,'' he said. But if there is money to be made, he said, ''that will be done.'' Mr. Holko of Lenape Resources, which has acquired drilling rights on about 100,000 acres of land in more than a dozen towns, said the amount of land actually opened up to drilling would make the difference in deciding whether it was economically viable. ''When you start taking away land mass'' through state regulations, he said, ''everybody will evaluate their individual acreage, and from that they'll decide whether it's worth pursuing in New York.'' To those seeking a ban on hydraulic fracturing, no set of state rules would suffice to safeguard water supplies, public health and the environment. ''We're putting fracking in the same category as smoking,'' said Sandra Steingraber, a distinguished scholar in residence in environmental studies at Ithaca College who leads the coalition New Yorkers Against Fracking. ''The only way to make smoking safe is to not smoke.'' Despite the constraints, Dennis Holbrook, executive vice president of Norse Energy, which is reorganizing under Chapter 11, said he looked forward to the day when the industry could prove the naysayers wrong. He said his company still held drilling rights over 130,000 acres of land and planned to seek new capital by forming a partnership with an investor once hydraulic fracturing is allowed. ''My hope is that if the industry has an opportunity to drill,'' he said, ''the public will be reassured that this can be done safely.''6:12 p.m. | Updated Analysts and prospective buyers are preparing for horse trading to begin over the Tribune Company's newspapers now that the company, whose holdings include The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, has emerged from bankruptcy protection. Tribune, which completed its bankruptcy paperwork on Monday, has not announced the sale of any assets, but it is likely to do so in the next several months so it can streamline its business, said Reed Phillips, managing partner of DeSilva & Phillips, a media banking firm. The troubled state of the newspaper industry makes those assets most likely to be sold, he added. Less clear, however, is whether the company will sell them all at once or by region, for example selling The Chicago Tribune with Chicago magazine. "The company is too large and complex right now, coming out of bankruptcy," Mr. Phillips said. "What's needed is a more focused strategy." Aaron Kushner, chief executive of Freedom Communications and publisher of The Orange County Register in California, confirmed on Monday that he was eager to buy Tribune's newspapers. He would not say whether he had had any specific conversations with Tribune Company executives. He said that from what he had gleaned from bankruptcy court filings and public pension documents, it seemed likely that Tribune would sell its newspapers as a group. That is because the company has such enormous and complex pension obligations and corporate overhead that it would be difficult to untangle them and sell properties individually. "We're interested in all of the papers, though obviously, from an outside perspective, we have not seen the numbers," Mr. Kushner. "If papers are sold, someone has to be responsible for the pensions." The company's reorganization plan was approved in July by the United States Bankruptcy Court in Delaware. It received final approval from the Federal Communications Commission in November. The announcement on Monday ended a four-year process for the company. Its assets were tied up in court while the media industry continued its digital transformation. In a letter to employees, Eddy Hartenstein, the company's chief executive, acknowledged that the last four years "have been a challenging period." "You have been resilient, dedicated to serving the company, our customers and your fellow employees," he said. "You are what sets Tribune apart from our competitors." The company also announced a seven-member board. The directors include Mr. Hartenstein and Peter Liguori, a former chief operating officer of Discovery Communications, who is expected to be named chief executive. Bruce Karsh, a founder of Oaktree Capital Management, which is a major shareholder in the company, also sits on the board, as does Ross Levinsohn, a former interim chief at Yahoo. Tribune said it expected to resolve details about board members' responsibilities at its first meeting in the next few weeks. The company is emerging from bankruptcy protection with a $300 million loan to finance its continuing operations, as well as a $1.1 billion loan to finance its reorganization. According to a company statement, Tribune plans to give former creditors 100 million shares of new class A common stock and new class B common stock. The end of the bankruptcy has led to plenty of speculation about who might buy Tribune's newspapers, with names like Rupert Murdoch and David Geffen floated as contenders. Mr. Phillips said he was skeptical that Mr. Murdoch would be a serious bidder because his company had so much else on its plate. "I would think they would take a look," said Mr. Phillips. "But when it comes to stepping up and making a substantial offer, I would be surprised. They're already splitting off the publishing business from the entertainment business." He said that Mr. Geffen, too, would probably not acquire Tribune properties "unless the price is really attractive, because he's not someone who has run a newspaper company previously. So I think it will be more of a challenge. The price he's probably willing to pay based on advice from his advisers is going to be lower than what someone else is willing to pay." Mr. Kushner praised Tribune's board and said he expected that "one of the first things that they'll be trying to figure out is how the different parts of the Tribune company really work well together or separately." Mr. Kushner, who bought The Orange County Register last summer, said he was focused on buying large metropolitan newspapers. He said that while Tribune newspapers appeared to be profitable, how they would remain profitable was unclear, as with many newspapers.At The Register, Mr. Kushner said, he tried to increase revenue by strengthening relationships with subscribers. For example, he said, the newspaper gave its readers more value by increasing its pages 40 percent in the last year. It also spent $12.4 million sending $100 checks to its subscribers that they could in turn make payable to favorite local nonprofit groups. He said enhancing a paper's relationship with subscribers would help drive subscriptions and, ultimately, advertising. "Our basic view is that we add more value," said Mr. Kushner. "This is the only path that we can have revenue grow." This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.SONOMA, Calif. -- Under rows of old chicken sheds, Jack Chambers has built an empire of huge metal boxes filled with cattle manure and millions of wriggling red worms. ''My buddies all had planes and boats,'' said Mr. Chambers, 60, a former airline pilot. ''I have a worm farm.'' Mr. Chambers's two decades of investment in what he calls an ''underground movement'' may be paying off. New research suggests that the product whose manufacture he helped pioneer, a worm-created soil additive called vermicompost, offers an array of benefits for plants -- helping them grow with more vigor, and making them more resistant to disease and insects, than those grown with other types of composts and fertilizers. The earthworm's digestive process, it turns out, ''is a really nice incubator for microorganisms,'' said Norman Q. Arancon, an assistant professor of horticulture at the University of Hawaii at Hilo. And these microbes, which multiply rapidly when they are excreted, alter the ecosystem of the soil. Some make nitrogen more available to plant roots, accounting for the increased growth. The high diversity and numbers of microbes outperform those in the soil that cause disease. By contrast, Dr. Arancon said, soil that has been heavily exposed to synthetic fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides lacks microbial richness and diversity, qualities that can be restored naturally by adding the microbes from worms. Some experts and entrepreneurs hope earthworms can also help with another problem: the growing piles of animal waste from dairy farms and other agricultural operations. Worm Power, a company in Avon, N.Y., transforms 10 million pounds of manure from a single dairy herd each year -- about 40 percent of the cattle's output -- into 2.5 million pounds of vermicompost. Tom Herlihy, a former municipal waste engineer who founded the company in 2003, says it has raised more than $6 million in venture capital and $2 million in grants for research, much of it at Cornell University. Here in Northern California, Mr. Chambers's Sonoma Valley Worm Farm produces about half a million pounds of similar compost, an amount he plans to increase in the spring. He loads a long metal bin with cow manure and 300,000 to 400,000 Eisenia fetida, or red wigglers -- weighing 300 to 400 pounds. In their wake, the worms leave cattle waste that has been processed into rich and crumbly castings that look like fine peat moss. It takes six months for a vermicompost bed to become fully mature, by which time a million worms roam the manure. Mr. Chambers continues to add two yards of manure and harvest one yard of worm compost weekly. The finished product is shaved, an inch at a time, off the bottom of the bin. An established bed can go on this way for years. Both operations pre-compost their manure before they fork it over to the worms. That means piling it up and allowing it to get naturally hot enough to kill unwanted seeds and pathogens like E. coli. The properties of worm compost are different from fertilizer or manure. ''It's interesting and complicated,'' said Rhonda Sherman, an extension specialist at North Carolina State University who has taught vermicomposting around the world for more than 30 years and who holds an annual conference on the subject. ''Certain plants might react well to vermicompost from dairy manure,'' she said, ''and other plants might react better to food-waste vermicompost.'' That has led to ''boutique composting,'' with different blends for different kinds of plants. A West Coast company, California Soils, uses worms to break down cardboard waste fibers that are too short to be recycled. The glue used to bind the paper serves as an important source of nitrogen for the worms. ''It's a really good product for nut farmers and stone fruit farmers,'' Mitch Davis, a company spokesman, said of the compost, adding that it also helps control nutgall, a fungal disease that afflicts walnut trees. Worms were said to be Darwin's favorite organism, and for good reason: it seems they can break down most anything. Studies have shown they can detoxify soil with cadmium, lead and other heavy metals. Another product made from worm waste is a concentrate, sometimes called tea, that Mr. Chambers extracts using an aerator. Dr. Arancon said even a 1 percent solution of the extract had the same properties as vermicompost. At Cornell, Eric Nelson, a plant pathologist, is studying how compost suppresses disease. Worm Power's product, he says, does a better job than traditional compost, perhaps because the worm compost is highly uniform. ''The key is understanding why these microbes do what they do,'' Dr. Nelson said. Then, perhaps, the mechanism can be enhanced, he said. The worm compost is considered valuable enough to fetch almost 10 times the price of other composts. Still, the industry suffers from image problems. ''It's hard to bring it out of the 'It's cute to have a worm box in my backyard' approach and put it on par with other strategies for waste management,'' said Allison Jack, who earned her doctorate by studying vermicompost at Cornell and is now teaching at Prescott College in Arizona. The quality of products varies widely, and because there are no industry standards, anyone can call a product vermicompost. For a time, the worm business was a haven for swindlers. Companies would sell worms to growers, who were told they could raise more worms and produce vermicompost, which they could then sell back. Some of these offers turned out to be Ponzi schemes. Still, the properties of vermicompost have long been recognized by growers. Jeff Dawson, the curator of gardens at the Round Pond Estate winery in the Napa Valley, swears by Mr. Chambers's castings, which he has used for more than a decade. ''A cup or half a cup in the hole as we plant each vine increases the vine's ability to establish itself at a much faster pace,'' Mr. Dawson said. ''And it creates a healthier plant.'' This being California, some of Mr. Chambers's customers are medical marijuana growers, and he likes the way growers do business. ''They hand you cash,'' he said.